---
layout: post
title: PhD position in estimating ocean mixing processes (Texel, Netherlands)
subtitle: Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research (NIOZ)
tags: [PhD, Netherlands, ocean mixing, observations, inverse modelling]
comments: false
---
https://www.workingatnioz.com/our-jobs/phd-in-estimating-ocean-mixing-processes.html


CLOSING DATE   
7th of December, 2020.


THE RESEARCH

Researchers in the Department of Ocean System Research (OCS) study open-ocean processes from a variety of disciplines including physical and chemical oceanography, marine geology, paleoceanography and deep-sea ecology. We investigate the past and present ocean in order to assess its future role in the Earth system. We collect data during oceanographic research cruises and conduct experiments both at sea and in the laboratory at our home base on Texel. The department carries out work in diverse environments all around the globe, from the Antarctic to the Arctic, and from the Caribbean to the North Sea.

The ocean influences the climate we experience now, and in the future. It does so by influencing the concentrations of heat, carbon, oxygen and other properties in the atmosphere. The ocean achieves this through uptake, transport and storage of these properties from the atmosphere. How and how much uptake, transport and storage takes place, depends very strongly on mixing processes that occur in the ocean. Without a proper understanding of ocean mixing processes, we are therefore unable to fully understand earths current and future climate.

Mixing processes are very difficult and expensive to measure directly. This makes it difficult to understand these mixing processes, and their influence on our climate. In this project, you will therefore develop new analyses techniques that will allow us to indirectly estimate mixing from variables that are much easier to observe, such as temperature and salinity. In addition, you will work on finding new ways or technologies that allow for easier direct measurements of mixing. The combination of new observational techniques and new analyses methods will provide the information needed to improve our understanding of the role of the ocean in the climate system.


THE PROJECT

In this project you have two main goals. The first goal is to develop new analyses techniques (inverse methods) that allow for estimates of the spatial and temporal variation of mixing from readily available and more easily observable variables such as the ocean temperature and salinity. The second goal is to compare, contrast and test these technologies against existing and future observations of ocean mixing from micro-structure turbulence profilers and tracer release experiments. The results can be used to progress on the development of new technologies that allow for more efficient ways to measure mixing. If successful, you contribute to improve our understanding of mixing, provide quantitative estimates of mixing and potentially provide insights into alternative methods to measure mixing. This knowledge directly feeds into our ability to understand the role of the ocean in the climate system and predict future climate. 


THE CANDIDATE

We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with a Masters-level degree in a natural science such as – but not limited to – physical oceanography, fluid dynamics or applied mathematics. Practical experience of laboratory work and scientific programming are desirable, and the willingness and aptitude to learn and develop these skills is essential. Participation in oceanographic research expedition(s) of several weeks’ duration is expected to be an important component of this project.

Candidates should be capable of independently planning and organizing their work, and should be interested in taking a leading role in directing the course of their own research within the overall framework of the project. Proficiency in spoken and written English is essential, as the candidate will present their results at international conferences, and write manuscripts to submit to peer-reviewed scientific journals.

Your position will be hosted by the Department of Ocean Systems (OCS) at the Royal NIOZ on the isle of Texel.


CONDITIONS

Employment of this position at Royal NIOZ is by NWO (The Netherlands Organization of Scientific Research). We offer a position for a period of 1 year (fulltime). At the end of this first year, the employment will be extended for a fixed-term of a maximum of 4 years, if the first-year evaluation held with the employee is positive. The salary is compliant to the CAO-OI (Collective Labour Agreement for Dutch Research Institutes). A pension scheme, a holiday allowance of 8% of the gross annual salary, a year-end bonus, and flexible work arrangements are part of the employment conditions.

 

MORE INFORMATION

For additional information about this vacancy, please contact dr. Sjoerd Groeskamp (principal investigator) or prof. dr. Gert-Jan Reichart (department head).

For additional information about the procedure, please contact Alexandra Noppeney (senior HR advisor).
