---
layout: post
title: Ocean modeller position in Bologna, Italy
subtitle: Centro Euro-Mediterraneo sui Cambiamenti Climatici (CMCC)
tags: [position, Italy, numerical modelling, operational oceanography]
comments: false
---

**Ocean Modeller (code 12298)**
<https://www.cmcc.it/jobs/12298-ocean-modeller>
*Deadline: 30/11/2020*

The CMCC is taking into consideration the possibility to hire a talented,
motivated and proactive Ocean Modeller to work in the Ocean Modeling and
Data Assimilation Division.
This job announcement is a public invitation to express interest for the
above mentioned CMCC Position.

The location is CMCC headquarter in *Bologna, Italy.*

The primary purpose for this position is to conduct part of the required
research in ocean modelling aimed at improving global performance of NEMO
model in the global high-resolution operational applications
http://gofs.cmcc.it/.

The successful candidate will help to evolve the high-res ocean operational
application, including R&D activities related to develop and implement
model sensitivity tests with the NEMO-based global applications in order to
improve and update the solution of the physical forecast system.

The candidate should be ready to design and perform different NEMO model
tests to evaluate the impact of different atmospheric forcing, updated
ocean and sea-ice physics, wave and tidal forcing or modifications on the
bathymetry.

Any new test model solution generated should be compared with the present
operational product (the reference solution) to evaluate the potential
added value of the model novelty.

Therefore, the selected candidate will develop part of his/her activity on
qualifying the resulting model simulations using observational data set for
validation.

If benefit of the tested novelties is demonstrated, the candidate will
participate in the process of transitioning it into operations. The
candidateâ€™s role will consist on providing technical support to the
modeling team to ease the process required to build the next release of the
global ocean forecast service.

The successful candidate will work in close collaboration with the division
team, but will also have the opportunity to exchange with the operational
and climate modeling teams.

The desired qualifications are:

   - Ph.D. in Physical Oceanography or other scientific disciplines dealing
   with numerical modelling (e.g. physics, mathematics);
   - Experience in numerical ocean and sea-ice modelling (ideally with the
   NEMO model);
   - Good programming skills (including languages such as Fortran, python
   and shell scripting);
   - Familiarity with UNIX systems, parallel computing on HPC architecture
   and scheduling systems;
   - Strong communication skills both verbal and written;
   - Good English language skills.

Belonging to legally protected categories (ex L. 68/99) will constitute a
preferential condition.

The initial appointment is for 12 months starting as soon as possible at a
annual salary which will depend on qualification and experience. For
post-doc the minimum annual salary is 28K Euros, for Jr. scientists the
minimum is 36K, comprehensive of benefits.

*APPLY NOW
<https://cmccfoundation.applytojob.com/apply/8fOyxLMdxu/12298-Ocean-Modeller.>:
https://www.cmcc.it/jobs/12298-ocean-modeller
<https://www.cmcc.it/jobs/12298-ocean-modeller>*
