---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Physical Oceanography / Numerical Modeling
subtitle: Alfred Wegener Institute, Bremerhaven, Germany
tags: [PhD, Germany, numerical modelling, physical oceanography, Arctic]
comments: false
---


The Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research (AWI) is a member of the Helmholtz Association (HGF) and funded by federal and state government. AWI focuses on polar and marine research in a variety of disciplines such as biology, oceanography, geology, geochemistry and geophysics thus allowing multidisciplinary approaches to scientific goals.


** Background **

The sea ice in the Arctic Ocean has been retreating dramatically under global warming. In the Eurasian part of the Arctic Ocean, there is evidence that vertical stratification in the upper ocean has weakened substantially in recent years, such that the upward heat flux from the subsurface Atlantic Water layer may have contributed strongly to the decline in sea ice. This scenario has been referred to as 'new Arcti' regime. In the perennially ice-covered central Arctic Ocean, instead, the halocline is thought to still prevent strong upward heat fluxes year-round.


** Tasks **

 - investigate the large-scale meridional ocean heat transport and regional processes in the Arctic Ocean
 - aim at a better understanding of the essential oceanic processes affecting sea ice in the Arctic climate system
 - investigate the ocean-sea-atmosphere heat fluxes using a combination of regional and global numerical model simulations
 - perform sensitivity experiments with the North Atlantic-Arctic Ocean Sea Ice Model (NAOSIM)
 - analyse existing climate model scenario runs


** Requirements **

 - M.Sc. degree in physical oceanography, environmental physics, climate physics, or related fields
 - very good command of English in writing and speaking (corresponding to level B2/C1)
 - willing to interact with an interdisciplinary science community.


** Additional skills and knowledge **

 - A solid knowledge of both numerical ocean models and fluid dynamics is desirable
 - advanced programming skills (Fortan, Unix)


We look forward to your application!

Please forward your application by September 25th, 2020 exclusively online <https://www.awi.de/en/work-study/jobs/job-offer.html>.
Reference number 20/116/D/Kli-b