---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Montreal, Canada
subtitle: University of Quebec in Montreal (UQAM)
tags: [PhD, Canada, numerical modelling, ocean circulation, deglaciation, paleoclimate]
comments: false
---
We are seeking a PhD student to work on modeling ocean circulation changes during the last deglaciation using a combination of modeling results and paleoclimate archives. The PhD candidate should have the flexibility and basic experience in working with climate models, in particular ocean models. Good statistic analytical skills are required for this project with advanced experience in data processing software (e.g., Matlab, R or Python). Applicants with academic and/or research background in oceanography with modeling experience are strongly encouraged to apply.

The PhD student will be hosted at the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences of the University of Quebec in Montreal (UQAM) and will benefit from direct interaction with the extended research group at the Center for the Study and Simulation of Climate at Regional Scale (ESCER) and GEOTOP Research Center on the Dynamics of the Earth System. The PhD student will be supervised by Profs. Anne de Vernal and Francesco S.R. Pausata.

Scholarship: 21,000 CA$/yr for 3 years as a minimum

The proposed start date: Summer 2021 or Fall 2021.

How to Apply: the application must include - in one single pdf - an expression of interest (cover letter), CV, academic transcripts, and contact information of at least 2 referees. All material must be sent to pausata.francesco@uqam.ca by 20th of November 2020.

About Montreal:
Montreal retained its title as best student city in North America in the 2019 QS Best Student Cities index and the Greater Montréal region has the highest number of university students per capita among all metropolitan areas in North America.

The city of Montréal is world-renowned as a centre of culture, creativity, knowledge and innovation. In 2017 the city celebrated its 375th anniversary, along with Canada’s 150th birthday. The combination of Indigenous, North American and European influences gives this city a unique cultural and architectural flavour. It enjoys an outstanding reputation for its arts scene, including (among others) the world-renowned Jazz Festival which takes place in late June – early July each year. Montréal’s cosmopolitan character is reflected in the vibrant and diverse communities that make up the city, and its excellent international cuisine.
Montréal is well known as a vibrant, safe city and  it was also the first North American city to be designated a UNESCO City of Design in 2006. The city has over 1000 parks and green spaces and 450 km of bike paths. Central to the city’s green spaces are Mont-Royal in the centre of Montréal, the parks situated on the islands of the St. Lawrence River, and Montréal’s extensive Botanic Garden.
Montréal is easily accessible from all parts of the world, with excellent air links. The airport is 20 minutes’ journey from the downtown core. The city boasts an efficient public transit system comprising a network of bus and Metro (subway) routes.
