---
layout: post
title: PhD positions in various areas of marine sciences (Miami, Florida)
subtitle: UMiami RSMAS
tags: [PhD, USA, ocean science]
comments: false
---

Please see below a list of opportunities and contact information for
faculty that are accepting applications for PhD opportunities (fully
funded) at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and
Atmospheric Science. Deadline for submission is January 1st:

Assistantship Title Department Faculty Email

Iceberg Monitoring from Space OCE Hans Graber hgraber@cstars.miami.edu

Harnessing sexual reproduction to develop and test interventions to
increase coral resilience MBE Andrew Baker a <hgraber@cstars.miami.edu>
baker@rsmas.miami.edu

Evolution of Innate Immunity in Ctenophores MBE Nikki Traylor-Knowles
ntraylorknowles@rsmas.miami.edu

Impacts of Atmospheric Reactions on Air Quality ATM/OCE Cassandra Gaston
cgaston@rsmas.miami.edu

Impacts of Aerosols on Oceans and Rainforests ATM/OCE Cassandra Gaston
cgaston@rsmas.miami.edu

Near-Surface Observations as Probes on Mantle and Subduction Dynamics MGS Adam
Holt aholt@miami.edu

Sub-Seasonal to Decadal Predictability and Prediction ATM/MPO Ben Kirtman
bkirtman@rsmas.miami.edu

Seismic Velocity Structure and Dynamic Triggering in the Caribbean Region
MGS Guoqing Lin glin@rsmas.Miami.edu

Tropical Cyclone Intensity Change: Interactions Between the Inner-Core and
Environment ATM/MPO Sharan Majumdar smajumdar@rsmas.miami.edu

Characterizing African Easterly Wave Variability and Environmental Factors
Associated with Tropical Cyclogenesis ATM/MPO Sharan Majumdar
smajumdar@rsmas.miami.edu

Tropical Cyclogenesis: Processes and Predictability ATM/MPO Sharan Majumdar
smajumdar@rsmas.miami.edu

Reef Growth and Sedimentation in the Red Sea Rift  MGS Sam Purkis
spurkis@rsmas.miami.edu

Climate Change: Clouds, Circulation and Climate ATM/MPO Brian Soden
bsoden@rsmas.miami.edu

Seasonal Variations in Aerosol-Cloud Interactions Over the Southeast
Atlantic and Their Radiative Impact ATM Paquita Zuidema pzuidema@miami.edu
Low Cloud Organization in the Caribbean ATM Paquita Zuidema
pzuidema@miami.edu

The full list can be found here:
https://graduate.rsmas.miami.edu/admissions/phd-assistanships/index.html


Application is found here: https://www.applyweb.com/miamigrd/index.ftl

Also, if you are interested in signing up for a virtual 1 on 1 session,
please click the link below to schedule a virtual meeting with:

   - Dr. Josh Coco (myself): Executive Director of Advancement at the
   Rosenstiel School, works closely with graduate students but can talk about
   any aspect of the school. To set up a time to chat one on one virtually
   with me, please click here:
  
  https://calendly.com/joshcoco
   
   <https://nam01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalendly.com%2Fjoshcoco&data=02%7C01%7Cjcoco%40rsmas.miami.edu%7Ca18d03e00fdd4f5befe708d8711c00bf%7C2a144b72f23942d48c0e6f0f17c48e33%7C0%7C0%7C637383712368031563&sdata=atLcVymIplESAmGlloHJiargcN9qg8RROW6b%2FiqlCNA%3D&reserved=0>*
   
   - Kat Grazioso: Completed her Master of Professional Science Degree
   (MPS) in Tropical Marine Ecology at the Rosenstiel School and now is a
   program coordinator at the school, and can answer general questions on all
   programs. To set up a time to chat one on one virtually with Kat, please
   click here: 
   
   https://calendly.com/katgrazioso
   
   <https://nam01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalendly.com%2Fkatgrazioso&data=02%7C01%7Cjcoco%40rsmas.miami.edu%7Ca18d03e00fdd4f5befe708d8711c00bf%7C2a144b72f23942d48c0e6f0f17c48e33%7C0%7C0%7C637383712368031563&sdata=wLurGjYf6r80J%2BJldhoHVr4ofC8mr6nZJF3ic4Ba5LA%3D&reserved=0>
 
   - Emma Pontes: Completed her undergraduate degree at the University of
   Miami with a double major in Marine Science and Biology and a minor in
   Chemistry, earned her MPS degree at the UMiami in Tropical Marine Ecosystem
   Management and is now earning her PhD at RSMAS in the marine biology
   department. 
   
   click here: 
   https://calendly.com/emmapontes
   
   <https://nam01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalendly.com%2Femmapontes&data=02%7C01%7Cjcoco%40rsmas.miami.edu%7Ca18d03e00fdd4f5befe708d8711c00bf%7C2a144b72f23942d48c0e6f0f17c48e33%7C0%7C0%7C637383712368041554&sdata=GS3kVfpi96PwtShkmEIPo7akfblaZihds%2BtUZ3QGfn4%3D&reserved=0>


Virtual tour of campus can be found here (led by Emma):

https://youtu.be/6l9Z029fWEk

<https://nam01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fyoutu.be%2F6l9Z029fWEk&data=02%7C01%7Cjcoco%40rsmas.miami.edu%7Ca18d03e00fdd4f5befe708d8711c00bf%7C2a144b72f23942d48c0e6f0f17c48e33%7C0%7C0%7C637383712368041554&sdata=QlO1%2BscqVFu0mj4X74VgRh9fNv8z1WR%2FVykIgRyVfwg%3D&reserved=0>
