---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position (3 years) in Kiel, Germany
subtitle: GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel
tags: [postdoc, Germany, climate modelling, Southern Ocean, SO-CHIC project]
comments: false
---
**Postdoc in climate modelling for 3 years, GEOMAR Kiel**

GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel is a foundation of
public law jointly financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (90 %)
and the state of Schleswig-Holstein (10 %) and is one of the
internationally leading institutions in the field of marine sciences.
Currently GEOMAR disposes over an annual budget of approx. 80 million
Euro and has approx. 1000 employees.

The research unit Marine Meteorology of the research division Ocean
Circulation and Climate Dynamics is offering a position as

*Postdoc (m/f/d) in climate modelling*

starting on 1st July 2020. Earlier or later start can be considered.

**Job Description**

We are looking for a Postdoctoral scientist to conduct research on
climate modelling focusing on Southern Ocean processes. It is part of
the large-scale H2020 SO-CHIC project (2019-2023), in which 15
institutions across Europe participate (http://www.sochic-h2020.eu). The
overall objective of SO-CHIC is to understand and quantify the
variability of heat and carbon budgets in the Southern Ocean through an
investigation of the key processes controlling exchanges between the
atmosphere, ocean and sea ice using a combination of observational and
modelling approaches.

You will investigate the impact of the Southern Ocean polynya,
particularly over the Weddell Sea, on the coupled climate system. The
approach will be based on the analysis of the state-of-the-art climate
model beyond IPCC-class, which resolves mesoscale eddies over the
Southern Ocean. Notably, you will run or analyse high-resolution AGCM
and a global coupled model incorporating a nested oceanic grid
refinement in the Weddell sector.

You will be supervised by Wonsun Park in close collaboration with a FOCI
modelling team at GEOMAR and Dr. D. Ferreira at University of Reading.

**Qualification**

  * A PhD in natural sciences (e.g. Oceanography, Meteorology, Physics)
  * Experience in coupled modelling
  * Knowledge in dynamics of the atmosphere and the oceans, and in
    atmosphere-ocean interactions with publication records
  * Experience with OpenIFS, NEMO, OASIS3-MCT, or AGRIF are desirable
  * Very good programming skills and experience with supercomputer (e.g.
    Fortran, Unix/Linux, MPI, HPCs)
  * Ability to work in a team
  * Fluency in English

The position is available for 3 years. The salary depends on
qualification and could be up to the class 13 TVöD-Bund of the German
tariff for public employees. This is a full-time position. Part-time
employment is though generally possible in the context of suitable
working time models and provided that the full-time position is filled.

GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel seeks to increase the
proportion of female scientists and explicitly encourages qualified
female academics to apply.

GEOMAR is an equal opportunity employer and encourages scientists with
disabilities to apply. Qualified disabled applicants will receive
preference in the application process.

Please send your application for this post via email*in a single
pdf-file* mentioning the keyword *"SO_CHIC”* in the subject line. Please
send your application not later than *May 3rd, 2020* to the following
email address:

bewerbung(at)geomar.de

As soon as the selection procedure has finished, all your application
data will be removed according to data protection regulation.

For further information regarding the position and research unit please
contact Dr. Wonsun Park (wpark(at)geomar.de).

Please do not contact us by phone about the present state of procedures.
However, we will answer all your questions if you send us an e-mail to
bewerbung(at)geomar.de. In doing so, please refer to the keyword.

GEOMAR is a member of the Helmholtz Association and the German Marine
Research Consortium (KDM). For further information please visit
www.geomar.de or www.helmholtz.de .

GEOMAR is committed to a non-discriminatory personnel selection. Our job
advertisements address all people.
