---
layout: post
title: PhD Positions at the University of Bologna (Italy)
subtitle: University of Bologna in collaboration with CMCC, Italy
tags: [PhD, Italy, numerical modelling, oceanography, coastal, downscaling, pollution, predictions]
comments: false
---

The PhD program of the University of Bologna (Italy), "Future Earth, 
Climate Change" and Societal Challenges is now open for applications.

The PhD program is done in collaboration with CMCC, CNR, INGV and the 
Environmental Regional Protection Agency.The deadline is May 21, 2020 
(at 01:00 PM, Italian time).

The PhD program is organized around 4 Themes in the fields of (a) the 
earth system, (b) impacts, adaptation and vulnerability, (c) 
Technological innovations for a decarbonized society and (d) 
Socio-economic and legal studies for mitigation of climate change.

Available positions: 19 scholarships
PhD Website: 
<https://phd.unibo.it/future-earth-climate-change-societal-challenges/en>

3 scholarships founded by CMCC, with the following different research 
themes:

- Climate downscaling and oceanography: Downscaling of seasonal forecasts 
for coastal areas of the ocean

The successful applicants will have to carry out the research in Lecce, 
after the general courses/training period in Bologna.

This research topic is concerned with the development and implementation 
of new seasonal atmosphere and ocean forecasting capacity in coastal 
areas by employing numerical models. The activities will exploit the 
exixsting Copernicus Climate Service (C3S) Seasonal Forecasting products 
such as the ones developed by CMCC and downscale them by means of 
statistical and deterministic (with numerical models) approach in the 
coastal and marine domains. The numerical models to be used for the 
ocean will be also the new generation unstructured grid models capable 
of resolving the coastal geometry in details. The skill of ocean 
variables from the downscaled seasonal forecasting system will be 
assessed using observables Essential Climate Variabless (ECVs) to 
develop and provide user-relevant indicators. The coastal seasonal 
forecasting system capabilities will provide examples of user-relevant 
products in support of improved ecosystem management, risk management 
and blue growth.

- Oceanography and marine pollution: Marine pollution modeling and risk 
mapping.

The successful applicant will carry out the research in Lecce, after the 
general courses/training period in Bologna.

Oceanographic monitoring and modeling will be used to study the pathways 
and fate of marine pollutants such as hydrocarbons and marine litter. In 
this PHD, advanced modelling methods and risk mapping techniques related 
to tracing pollutants on local and regional scales. The PhD will also 
consider the coupling of pollutants models with met-oceanographic 
transport fields from operational oceanography products such as 
Copernicus Marine Monitoring Environment Service and downscaled high 
resolution systems.? Ensemble and multi-model methods, risk assessment 
algorithms and eventually the support of decision support systems will 
be developed. Integration of modelling and observing systems for model 
validation will be carried out. The PHD will further develop the 
MEDSLIK-II oil spill community model and the CMCC marine litter model. 
Possible key questions of the PhD are identified as follows: Which 
factors affect the dispersion of the pollutants in the marine 
environment? What happens to the contaminants on the ocean?s surface, in 
the water column and sediments? How do marine pollutants interact with 
marine habitats? How do they influence marine and maritime resources? 
What is the rate of fragmentation, biofouling, and sedimentation of 
plastics? What are the mechanisms of beaching, seabed deposition?

- Ocean predictions: The successful applicant will carry out the 
research in Bologna. This research scholarship deals with the 
understanding of wave induced mixing processes and their 
parameterization in numerical ocean models. The final objective is to 
improve the coupled wave-current numerical model of the Mediterranean 
Sea in hindcast and forecasting mode. This project is connected to the 
Copernicus Marine Environment Monitoring Service 
(<https://marine.copernicus.eu/>).

Please find "How to Apply" and details about courses/training here:

<https://phd.unibo.it/future-earth-climate-change-societal-challenges/en>