---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Marseille, France
subtitle: Mediterranean Institute of Oceanography (MIO)
tags: [PhD, France, numerical modelling, ocean fronts, marine life, climate change]
comments: false
---

The international project “Ocean Front CHANGE” (OFC), supported by the Belmont Forum over 2020-2023, gathers natural and social scientists from 4 countries (United States of America, France, Germany and Kenya) to study and manage ocean fronts.

In this framework, we are looking for a bright, inventive, motivated and dedicated student with strong communication and interpersonal skills. Student with a solid background in Marine Sciences, good computing skills and showing interests in working with this interdisciplinary team will be preferred.

Applications of candidates with a master degree in Oceanography (major) with minors such as Dynamical systems, Computer sciences, Applied Mathematics and Statistics, Marine Biology, Theoretical Ecology or Computational Biology would be ideal. Student with a degree in related disciplines and/or with subsets of these skills are also encouraged to apply.

The main objective of this PhD project is to study the formation, occurrence and variability of ocean fronts both in contemporary and future climates, and how they contribute to the structuring of marine life. It focuses on the Mozambique Channel (extending from 12°S to 25°S between Madagascar and the African mainland), a highly turbulent oceanic region housing diverse coastal and pelagic ecosystems that support crucial socio-economical activities (fisheries, tourism, etc…). This topic falls within the UN Sustainable Development Goals #13 and #14. Full description of the PhD project and context can be found on line.

The position is fully funded during three years, ideally starting in January 2021 (no later than April 1, 2021). There is no nationality restriction; gross salary is about 1800€/month; the 3-years contract provides full social security coverage.

The PhD student will be joining a dynamic team of researchers working at the interface between Physical and Biological Oceanography, and will be interacting more widely with all natural and social scientists involved in OFC. The position is based at the MIO laboratory (Marseille, France) and will involve national and international business trips to work with close collaborators and to present his/her research at national/international conferences as well as at project meetings.

To apply, please prepare the following:

    - a cover letter outlining your interests and expertise suitable for this position;
    
    - your complete and up‐to‐date CV;
    
    - the contact details of 1 to 3 referees.

Apply via email to Vincent Rossi (vincent.rossi@mio.osupytheas.fr) and Boris Dewitt (boris.dewitt@legos.ops-mip.fr), subject: OFC-PHD no later than 28 October 2020. Short-listed candidates will be contacted for remote interviews in November 2020.
