---
layout: post
title: PhD position in sediment transport dynamics (Hull, UK)
subtitle: University of Hull, Energy and Environment Institute
tags: [PhD, UK, offshore wind farm, sediment transport, coastal ocean]
comments: false
---

We have a PhD opportunity available in Offshore Windfarm Array Scale Sediment Transport Dynamics through The Aura Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Offshore Wind Energy and the Environment.



The Aura CDT is led by the Energy and Environment Institute at the University of Hull with academic partners Durham, Newcastle and Sheffield Universities and over 20 Industry partners. Working closely with Siemens Gamesa and the Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) Catapult, the Aura CDT has developed industry sponsored scholarships that directly address a challenge facing the offshore wind energy sector.



The Aura CDT invites applications for this fully funded, 4-year PhD scholarship.



The University of Hull is committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all, giving every individual the chance to achieve their potential, free from prejudice and discrimination. Be confident in this and apply to join us!





Project overview:



Future offshore wind farm (OWF) arrays will be built further from shore. As a result, there is a need to advance both planning and design of foundations and electrical infrastructure to cope with greater depths, and more extensive exposure in the hostile marine environment. Built OWF array configurations are not optimised for the different predominant hydrodynamic conditions and large-scale, long-term sediment transport processes at future development sites. Therefore, different optimal design concepts to those adopted for current sites might be needed.



Little is known about array-scale longshore and cross-shore sediment transport budgets, sediment mobility and increased turbidity effects in OWFs in the UK and emerging markets. Moreover, by 2034, up to 1,000 turbines in UK windfarms will reach the end of their design life, requiring decommissioning work, which will trigger seabed instabilities and modify sediment transport fluxes.



This PhD will explore the following research questions:

  *   How are the flow and sediment transport processes in future OSW sites different to those in current sites?
  *   How would current array configurations modify those conditions? What are the potential impacts to array scale seabed dynamics?
  *   How can current cable installation be modified to facilitate site decommissioning and future repurposing?

The post is available from September 2021 as a full-time position. You will join Cohort 3 of the Aura CDT in Hull, in the heart of the UK?s Energy Estuary ? the global centre for research, innovation and development for the sector. Initially, you will study for a Postgraduate Diploma in Offshore Wind Energy and the Environment, followed by a 3-year PhD supported by ORE Catapult.

For questions about the project please email me directly (R.Fernandez@hull.ac.uk). For questions about the Aura CDT please email auracdt@hull.ac.uk.


Visit http://auracdt.hull.ac.uk<http://auracdt.hull.ac.uk/> for more details on the CDT and here https://aura-innovation.co.uk<https://aura-innovation.co.uk/> on our wider work facing the sector.
