---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position (3 years) in Reading, UK
subtitle: University of Reading
tags: [postdoc, UK, numerical modelling, North Atlantic, climate variability]
comments: false
---

**Research Scientist in Decadal Climate Variability**


*Job reference:* SRF33079

*Location:* Whiteknights Reading UK

*Closing date:* 30/08/2020

*Job live date:* 29/07/2020

*Salary:* £30,942 to £40,322 per annum

*Employment type:* AR-Research

*Department:* National Centre for Atmospheric Science / School of
Mathematical Physical & Computational Sciences

*Division:* Meteorology

*Hours per week:* 1.00FTE

*Employment Basis/Type:* Full-time, Fixed-term for up to 3 years



We seek a talented post-doctoral scientist to carry out research to better
understand the impacts on climate of decadal timescale variability in the
subpolar North Atlantic Ocean. This research is an important component of a
recently funded UKRI-NERC research project, and is a collaboration between
the National Centre for Atmospheric Science and several other research
centres in the U.K. and U.S.



To understand the oceanic and atmospheric processes by which the subpolar
North Atlantic Ocean affects the wider climate you will analyse and
evaluate against observations state-of-the-art climate model simulations
made for CMIP6, and take part in collaborative multi-model experiments to
test specific hypotheses and develop understanding.



You will have:

·         A PhD or equivalent in mathematical or physical science, or
should expect to shortly receive one

·         Strong scientific analytical ability, creativity and
self-motivation

·         Experience of analysing output from climate models or similar
datasets

·         Good communication skills and the disposition to collaborate
effectively with both internal and external project members



*Informal Contact Details*

Contact Role: Principal Investigator and Line Manager

Contact Name: Jon Robson

Contact Phone: +44 118 378 7473

Contact Email: *j.i.robson@reading.ac.uk <j.i.robson@reading.ac.uk>*



*Alternative Informal Contact Details*

Contact Role: Co-Investigator

Contact Name: Rowan Sutton

Contact Phone: +44 118 378 8337

Contact Email: *r.sutton@reading.ac.uk <r.sutton@reading.ac.uk>*



Interview date to be confirmed

The University is committed to having a diverse and inclusive workforce,
supports the gender equality Athena SWAN Charter and the Race Equality
Charter, and is a Diversity Champion for Stonewall, the leading LGBT+
rights organisation. Applications for job-share, part-time and flexible
working arrangements are welcomed and will be considered in line with
business needs.



For further details, and to apply, please visit:

https://jobs.reading.ac.uk/displayjob.aspx?jobid=6834
