---
layout: post
title: Ph.D. positions in ice and climate at the University of Manitoba
subtitle: Centre for Earth Observation Science (CEOS), University of Manitoba, Canada
tags: [PhD, CEOS, Canada, ice-ocean interaction, Antarctica]
comments: false
---

The Centre for Earth Observation Science (CEOS) at the University of Manitoba is seeking a Ph.D. student in ice and climate. The successful candidate will work under the guidance of Dr. Karen Alley and Dr. Dorthe Dahl-Jensen. 

Ph.D. student in Antarctic ice-ocean interaction:
Antarctica's floating margins are changing rapidly, influencing global sea-level and ocean circulation. We seek a Ph.D. student interested in studying the ice-ocean interaction that drives these changes using tools such as satellite imagery, laser altimetry, and numerical modelling. While much of this work will focus on Antarctica's floating ice shelves, considerable flexibility is available in this project to involve studies of related past and present ice-ocean interactions in Greenland and the Canadian Arctic. Candidates should ideally hold a Master's degree in Physical Geography, Geology, Oceanography, Environmental Science, Engineering, or a related field, but outstanding candidates holding a Bachelor's as their highest degree in one of these fields will also be considered. The start date for this project is flexible.

Diversity and Immigration Statement:
The University of Manitoba is strongly committed to equity and diversity within its community and especially welcomes applications from women, racialized persons, Indigenous Peoples, persons with disabilities, persons of all sexual orientations and genders, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of ideas. If you require accommodation supports during the recruitment process, please contact U of M's Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Facilitator, Valerie Williams at Valerie.Williams@umanitoba.ca<mailto:Valerie.Williams@umanitoba.ca> or 204-474-8371. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be given priority.

FIPPA Statement:
Application materials, including letters of reference, will be handled in accordance with the protection of privacy provision of The Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy (Manitoba). Please note that curriculum vitae may be provided to participating members of the search process.

Application deadline: December 1, 2020

Applications should be emailed to Dr. Karen Alley (Karen.alley@umanitoba.ca<mailto:Karen.alley@umanitoba.ca>). Please include in your application a cover letter indicating your motivation and relevant research experience, a detailed curriculum vitae, and the contact information for at least two referees.