---
layout: post
title: PhD in observation and modelling of rogue waves (Manchester, UK)
subtitle: University of Manchester
tags: [PhD, UK, numerical modelling, observations, surface waves]
comments: false
---

Rogue waves are large, unexpected surface waves on the ocean that can
cause catastrophic damage to offshore structures and vessels. These
‘freak’ or ‘monster’ waves are suspected to have capsized hundreds of
ocean-going vessels and to have resulted in an unfortunate loss of life.
A range of proposed explanations exist for the formation of rogue wave
events including the effect of localised currents, abrupt depth
transitions, modulation instability, dispersive (and directional)
focusing enhanced by second-order bound nonlinearity, and Greenspan
resonance through interaction with atmospheric convective storms. All
are able to create rogue waves given the right set of theoretical
conditions.  However, debate is ongoing as to the dominant mechanism(s)
for rogue wave formation in real seas.

This project aims to make significant progress in our understanding for
real ocean settings, primarily through the generation and analysis of
numerical models created to assess regions (and time scales) where rogue
wave observations have been made. This will be supported by a novel
analysis of unexploited ocean datasets which contain rogue wave
measurements (or indirectly hint at their occurrence).

A suggested route to achieving the project aims is to develop spectral
wave models to hindcast the wave conditions in the region of observed
rogue wave events. The spectral conditions can then be used, in
combination with local bathymetry, to drive a phase-resolved model (e.g.
nonlinear potential flow) over a localised region. The statistical and
spectral analysis of the resulting conditions can be used to identify a)
did the model capture an enhanced likelihood of rogue wave events? and
b) if so, what is the dominant cause?

If the approach is successful in identifying the dominant cause(s) of
rogue waves in oceans, then this will make significant advances in our
understanding of rogue wave formation in real seas in addition to
validating the methodology developed throughout the project for their
assessment. The implications of these findings have the potential to be
fundamentally significant with wide-ranging practical implications. With
improved understanding, appropriate extreme ‘design’ conditions can be
defined for the de-risking of offshore vessels and structures, and if
locations and/or time scales can be identified which have an increased
risk potential, these can potentially be avoided. Consequently, the
results have the potential to reduce capital loss as well as loss of life.

The student will join, and be supported by, a growing team of ocean
modellers who use a variety of approaches (e.g. spectral wave models,
computational fluid dynamics, smoothed particle hydrodynamics,
experiments) to answer research questions on a range of ocean scales. No
specific modelling experience is expected.

Please apply using the form here:

https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/explaining-rogue-waves-in-the-ocean-through-observations-and-modelling/?p127614/
