---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position ocean satellite remote sensing (Brest, France)
subtitle: Laboratoire d’océanographie physique et spatiale (LOPS), IFREMER
tags: [postdoc, France, satellite observations]
comments: false
---

Job title : Research scientist in ocean satellite remote sensing using active sensors (M/F)

Reference:  PV-2021-036

Department/Office :  Département Oceanographie et Dynamique des Ecosystemes

Unité de recherche - Laboratoire d’océanographie physique et spatiale

Duty station:  Brest, Bretagne, FR , France

Starting date on the job :

Deadline for applications : 17/05/2021

 

https://ifremer-en.jobs.net/en-GB/job/research-scientist-in-ocean-satellite-remote-sensing-using-active-sensors-m-f/J3W1LJ642XGVQRVQ6QT
 

The Institute and the recruiting departement

A pioneer in ocean science, IFREMER’s cutting-edge research is grounded in sustainable development and open science. Our vision is to advance science, expertise and innovation to:

- Protect and restore the ocean

- Sustainably use marine resources to benefit society

- Create and share ocean data, information & knowledge.

With more than 1,500 personnel spread along the French coastline in more than 20 sites, the Institute explores the 3 great oceans: the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific oceans. A leader in ocean science, IFREMER is managing the French Oceanographic Fleet and its dedicated scientists create ground-breaking technology to push the boundaries of ocean exploration and knowledge, from the abyss to the atmosphere-ocean interface.

Well-established in the international scientific community, our scientists, engineers and technicians are committed to advance knowledge about our planet’s last unexplored frontiers. They provide the science we need for informed decision-making and public policy and they transfer this knowledge and technology to businesses to fulfill public and private needs. Core to our mission is also to strengthen public awareness about the importance of understanding the ocean and its resources, and empowering future generations of leaders through education and outreach national campaigns.

Founded in 1984, IFREMER is a French public organization and its budget approximates 240 million euros. It is operating under the joint authority of the French Ministry for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, the French Ministry for the Ecological and Solidary Transition, and the French Ministry of Agriculture and Food.

 
General areas of responsibility

Ifremer Lab. of Ocean Physics and remote Sensing (LOPS) has an opening for a Research Scientist. 

The LOPS  position is within the SIAM (Satellite et Interface AIr-Mer) team in the Ifremer Centre in Brest, France. The laboratory is dedicated to observing and investigating oceanic motions, their connections with the atmosphere, sea floor, and coastal zones,  and their influence on life in the ocean.

LOPS is a joint research unit combining the strengths of  Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique  (CNRS www.cnrs.fr),  Institut français de recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer (Ifremer www.ifremer.fr), Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD www.ird.fr) and the University of Brest (UBO www.univ-brest.fr). LOPS is also one of the laboratories that make up Institut Universitaire Européen de la Mer (IUEM), and one of the laboratories of the “Océanographie et Dynamique des Ecosystèmes” department at Ifremer. 

SIAM is one of the four teams of LOPS. It is primarily composed of engineers and research scientists working on satellite remote sensing of the ocean in order to define and analyse geophysical measurements.  This includes both direct analysis of satellite measurements, as well as the exploitation of in situ observations, to enable and improve satellite retrievals of ocean wind and waves, surface temperature and salinity, sea ice parameters, etc. This is conducted in the framework of several national, European or international projects, including contracts with space agencies.

In collaboration with the space agencies (ESA, CNES etc), Ifremer with the ODE/LOPS/SIAM team would like to reinforce its expertise in ocean remote sensing and/or air-sea interactions from active sensors to better observe ocean wind and waves, currents and sea ice. The successful applicant is expected to complement and strengthen the world-leading expertise on ocean remote sensing at LOPS/SIAM. This includes the development of research on original algorithms to interpret radar measurements of the ocean surface, such as provided by recent missions and instruments (e.g. CFOSAT, Sentinel-1, ASCAT) or future missions (SWOT, MetOp Second Generation, Harmony). Potential research areas include : extreme events, air-sea interactions, and/or sea ice dynamics. 

 


Objectives

The successful candidate is expected to : 1)  contribute to the definition and the development of innovative  algorithms / geophysical products / instruments / missions 2) investigate oceans in one of the research area of the laboratory.

Possible end goals are the analysis of the ocean dynamics at the highest possible resolution, connecting low and high resolution analyses, better understanding the ocean mechanisms which impact air-sea fluxes, and contributing to the development of new parametrizations to be integrated in numerical models.



What You Will Do ? 

    Perform research using remote sensing of the ocean using active radar sensors.
    Work with the LOPS/SIAM team and other research scientists to analyze existing data sets, define in situ and satellite missions to conduct his/her research.
    Where/when appropriate, engage in in situ / airborne campaign experiments.
    Publish in a timely fashion research results in peer-reviewed journals.
    Present research results at workshops and international conferences.


Collaborative work environment

Besides a rich interdisciplinary local research environment spanning all Marine Sciences, the successful candidate is expected to work with National, European and foreign space agencies, national and European meteorological services, and international research laboratories 

 
Required Knowledge, skills, and characteristics

    PhD in oceanography, physics, remote sensing, air-sea interactions, or similar. Experience in ocean remote sensing.



What is required ?

The successful candidate has strong ability in data analysis, has a deep knowledge in the physics of remote sensing and is able to understand modeling datasets at high resolution (LES Large Eddy Simulations).

 

Technical skills and knowledge :

    Strong skills in remote sensing and ocean physics
    Data analysis
    Numerical skills
    Good level of written and spoken english

 

Personal qualities:

    Scientific curiosity
    Autonomy, proactive
    Ability to work in a team
    Open-mindedness to other research

Specific working conditions

 Working conditions

    Full time

 How to apply for this position

https://ifremer-en.jobs.net/en-GB/job/research-scientist-in-ocean-satellite-remote-sensing-using-active-sensors-m-f/J3W1LJ642XGVQRVQ6Q

Deadline for applications: 17/05/2021

All applications are processed exclusively via our website. Interested candidates can apply by clicking the “Apply” button. 
