---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in regional ocean skill assessment of ESM (Bergen, Norway)
subtitle: NORCE Climate, Bjerknes Centre for Climate Research
tags: [postdoc, numerical modelling, downscaling, model evaluation]
comments: false
---

A 2-year postdoctoral fellowship position (with a possibility for
extension) is available in the research topic multi-ESMs process-based
assessment and benchmark for regional downscaling purpose at the
biogeochemistry group of NORCE Climate and the Bjerknes Centre for Climate
Research. The Bjerknes Centre is the largest climate research centre in the
Scandinavian countries and among the leading centres in Europe.



We are seeking an enthusiastic and highly motivated climate scientist to
work in the joint JPI-Climate and -Oceans project CE2COAST (Downscaling
Climate and Ocean Change to Services). The project, involves international
and interdisciplinary researchers, aims to deliver observation-driven
synthesis of statistical and dynamical downscaling methodology to provide
improved process resolution and system representations tailored to
regional/coastal domains and their associated pressures/services.


*Work tasks*

The selected candidate will collaborate with Earth system and regional
ocean modelers to

   - assess the fidelity of global models in simulating the observed
   variability in physical and biogeochemical processes at regional and
   contemporary time scales;
   - quantify trends and thresholds of climate and ecological pressures,
   uncertainty, and systematic bias;
   - deliver best-estimate Earth system model projections to be downscaled
   to determine regional climatic responses to future climate change;
   - publish and disseminate results in peer-reviewed journals and other
   dissemination activities at relevant conferences, seminars, or workshops



*Minimum requirements*

   - Completed a PhD in oceanic or related Earth system sciences field at
   the time of appointment;
   - Experiences in analyzing large and diverse climate-related data sets,
   preferably CMIP (Coupled Model Intercomparison Project) ESMs;
   - Willing to perform high quality research independently and
   interactively with external scientists;
   - Proficient in analytical methods and software (Python, R, Matlab,
   etc.);
   - Effective oral and written communication skills



*Desirable for the job*

   - A strong track record in peer-reviewed publications
   - Intermediate knowledge of climate system dynamics and marine
   biogeochemistry
   - Experience in running Earth system model or regional downscaling model
   - Experience in ESMValTool
   - Familiar in global and regional climate and ocean biogeochemistry data
   products
   - Experience in emergent constraint analysis
   - Experience working in interdisciplinary teams



*We can offer*

   - A good and professionally challenging working environment
   - Career development training
   - A competitive salary
   - Excellent welfare benefits
   - Opportunities for independent project development
   - Possibility to influence your own work, worktime and choice of
   solutions



*Your application must include*

   - A brief account of your research interests and motivation for applying
   for the position.
   - The names and contact information of at least two references
   - CV including a list of scientific publications
   - Transcripts, diplomas and relevant certificates
   - If a PhD has not yet been awarded: An official confirmation that the
   doctoral thesis has been submitted

  *How to apply and application deadline*

Please note that the application and appendices with certified translations
into English or a Scandinavian language must be uploaded together with your
application to the recruitment portal Jobbnorge.



*Application deadline: 31st of January 2021*



If you have any scientific questions about the position, please contact:
Jerry Tjiputra (jerry.tjiputra@norceresearch.no). Questions about the
application process can be directed to Senior HR Adviser Monika Voit (
monika.voit@norceresearch.no).


*About NORCE Climate*

NORCE Climate conducts basic and applied research on the climate system, on
anthropogenic climate change and its impact on societies, and on the
feasibility of climate change mitigation options. NORCE Climate is one of
the four partners of the Bjerknes Centre for Climate Research, which is the
largest climate research centre in the Scandinavian countries and among the
leading centres in Europe. Our biogeochemistry group aims for better
understanding of past and present ocean carbon cycle changes as well as
provides reliable long-term future projections and assessments of
sustainable mitigation options. We also actively explore new analytical
tools, such as Machine Learning in a Big Data framework, to improve
multi-model data analysis and constrain projection uncertainty.
