---
layout: post
title: Researcher position on the marine carbon cycle (Palisades, New York)
subtitle: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia Unversity
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, observations, carbon]
comments: false
---

**Associate Research Scientist - Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO)
of Columbia University**

_/*Description:*/_
The Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University located in
Palisades, New York, invites applications for an Associate Research
Scientist position in the Ocean Carbon Group.

The position will focus on quantifying and reducing uncertainty in
extrapolations of sparse surface ocean pCO2 observations to global
coverage. The work will involve (1) evaluation of existing
extrapolations for surface ocean pCO2 within an existing testbed based
in Large Ensemble climate models, (2) developing new extrapolation
techniques that include explicit estimates of uncertainty, and (3)
assessing implications for scientific understanding of the mechanisms of
spatial and temporal variability in the ocean carbon sink. Prior
experience with oceanography, carbon cycle science and statistical
methods is strongly preferred. The candidate will be expected to build
strong links with collaborators in the Department of Statistics and the
Data Science Institute at Columbia, and at NOAA research laboratories.

_/*Qualifications:*/_

Candidates should have completed a PhD in oceanography or closely
related field, and have demonstrated experience with data science
techniques. Excellent communication, interpersonal and organizational
skills and ability to use independent judgment required. Evidence of the
ability to conduct and publish high quality research is required.

Appointments will be for 1-year, with continuation pending funding and
progress.

The search will remain open for at least 30 days after the ad appears
and will continue until the position is filled.

Proposed start date is November 1,?2021, with some flexibility.

Columbia University benefits accompany this Officer of Research
appointment.

For more information about this position and to submit your application,
CV, and contact information for (3) professional references, please use
the following link: https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/#/78314

The Lamont community values diversity and inclusion, and encourages
applications from members of underrepresented minority groups.

Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
Employer - Race / Gender / Disability / Veteran/

We accept online applications only.
