---
layout: post
title: PhD position in coastal physical oceanography (Miami, Florida)
subtitle: Florida International University (FIU)
tags: [PhD, USA, coastal ocean]
comments: false
---
Florida International University is Miami’s public research university, focused on student success. According to U.S. News and World Report, FIU has 42 top-50 rankings in the nation among public universities. FIU is a top U.S. research university (R1), with more than $200 million in annual expenditures. FIU ranks 15th in the nation among public universities for patent production, which drives innovation, and is one of the institutions that helps make Florida the top state for higher education. The Next Horizon fundraising campaign is furthering FIU’s commitment to providing students Worlds Ahead opportunities. Today, FIU has two campuses and multiple centers, and supports artistic and cultural engagement through its three museums: Patricia & Phillip Frost Art Museum, the Wolfsonian-FIU, and the Jewish Museum of Florida-FIU. FIU is a member of Conference USA, with more than 400 student-athletes participating in 18 sports. The university has awarded more than 330,000 degrees to many leaders in South Florida and beyond. For more information about FIU, visit www.fiu.edu.

Coastal Physical Oceanography / Coastal Hydrology

The Department of Earth and Environment at Florida International University invites applications for a full-time, open-rank, tenure-track, faculty position in Coastal Physical Oceanography or Coastal Hydrology to begin in August 2022. The successful candidate will be expected to develop and maintain a research program (external funding, peer-reviewed scholarly work), mentor of graduate/undergraduate students, teach/adapt/develop transformative courses in the broad areas of Oceanography, provide service to their Department/College and Institute and to have excellent communication skills. A Ph.D. in Physical Oceanography or a closely related field and research experience are required. Qualified candidates at all career stages are encouraged to apply. Hiring will be considered at the rank appropriate. For applicants to a senior rank position (associate professor or professor), preference will be given to those having current or forthcoming extramural research funding transferable to FIU. The successful candidate will hold a primary position in the Department of Earth and Environment in the College of Arts, Sciences & Education. Tenure-track and tenured faculty are strongly encouraged to be associated with one of our Centers or Institutes, these include our Preeminent and Emerging Preeminent Programs: Institute of Environment, environment.fiu.edu and Extreme Events Institute: https://eei.fiu.edu.

The Department of Earth and Environment is dedicated to ensuring a diverse, inclusive, and scholarly environment. Applicants with expertise in all areas of Physical Oceanography are encouraged to apply. The Department has research emphases (PhD Tracks) in Earth System Science. The potential to form collaborations with faculty representing these areas of research emphasis will be looked on favorably. The Department, with 36 faculty members, has a dynamic and growing Ph.D. program in earth and environmental sciences supporting over 100 graduate students, as well as a vibrant undergraduate program with over 400 B.A. and B.S. students.

Qualified candidates are encouraged to apply to Job Opening ID 525743 at https://facultycareers.fiu.edu/ and attach a cover letter, a curriculum vitae that includes information on any past and current extramural funding (agency, amount, grant period, role), a statement of research accomplishment and plans, a statement on teaching and student mentoring, a diversity statement (see https://go.fiu.edu/diversitystatement), and a copy of transcripts or diploma from Ph.D. granting institution (or a statement indicating date of potential completion). Candidates will be requested to provide names and contact information for at least 3 references who will be contacted as determined by the search committee. Applications will be accepted until the position is filled, however a review of the applications will begin on January 12th, 2022.

Florida Statute 1010.35 - Screening Foreign Researchers

Pursuant to Florida law, any citizen of a foreign county who is not a permanent resident of the U.S., or who is a citizen or permanent resident but is affiliated with or has had at least 1 year of employment or training in China, Russia, Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Venezuela, or Syria is subject to additional screening. Applicants meeting those criteria will be required to provide the following information in the application: every institution of higher education attended; all previous employment since the applicant’s 18th birthday; list of all published material, current and pending research funding from any source, including details about the research, your role, funding source, and amount; list and description of any non-university professional activities; any affiliation with an institution or program in a foreign country; a complete copy of your passport; the most recently submitted DS-160 (Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application).

Clery Notice
In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Crime Statistics Act, the University Police department at Florida International University provides information on crimes statistics, crime prevention, law enforcement, crime reporting, and other related issues for the past three (3) calendar years. The FIU Annual Security report is available online at: https://police.fiu.edu/download/annual-security-fire-safety-report/.

To obtain a paper copy of the report, please visit the FIU Police Department located at 885 SW 109th Avenue, Miami, FL, 33199 (PG5 Market Station).

Pay Transparency
Florida International University will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the employer, or (c) consistent with the contractor’s legal duty to furnish information.

FIU is a member of the State University System of Florida and an Equal Opportunity, Equal Access Affirmative Action Employer all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran status.
