---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in Southern Ocean biogeochemistry (Hobart, Australia)
subtitle: University of Tasmania, Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies (IMAS)
tags: [postdoc, Australia, Southern Ocean, marine biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Ocean Mesoscale Biogeochemistry

Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies (IMAS)

University of Tasmania, Australia

 

Full time, fixed term position for 3 years

 

The Research Associate in Ocean Mesoscale Biochemistry will be working on how mesoscale processes such as eddies and fronts drive variability in the magnitude and transport of heat, salt, carbon and nutrients in the Southern Ocean.

This position is funded by the ARC Centre of Excellence for Climate Extremes (CLEX) and part of the Ocean Extremes Program.

 

Key Accountabilities:

- Develop techniques to quantify the biogeochemical signature of fronts and eddies in the Southern Ocean.

- Quantify the temporal changes and role of mesoscale in Southern Ocean carbon cycling over the last ~20 years.

- Use outcomes of your work to help improve the representation of mesoscale biogeochemistry.

- Collaborate with the CLEX Knowledge Brokerage Team to communicate research to stakeholders outside academia.

 

Further details can be found at:

<https://climateextremes.org.au/research-associate-in-ocean-mesoscale-biogeochemistry/>

 

Remuneration:

Appointment to this role will be at Academic Level A or Academic Level B and will have a total remuneration package of up to $133,842 AUD comprising base salary within the range of $71,443 to $114,395 AUD plus 17% superannuation.

 

How to Apply:

• To apply online, please provide your resume, cover letter outlining your suitability and motivation for the role, and your responses to the position/selection criteria here: <https://careers.utas.edu.au/en/job/495727/research-associate-in-ocean-mesoscale-biogeochemistry>

• For further information about this position, please contact Amelie Meyer Amelie.Meyer@utas.edu.au .

• Please visit <http://www.utas.edu.au/jobs/applying2> for our guide to applying and details on the recruitment process.

 

Applications close Tuesday, 4 May 2021, 11.55pm

To be eligible for this position, you are required to have Australian citizenship, permanent residence or a current valid visa that allows you to fulfill the requirements of this role.

 

 

Dr. Amelie Meyer (she/her)

ARC DECRA Fellow

Chief Investigator, ARC Centre of Excellence for Climate Extremes

Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies (IMAS)

College of Sciences and Engineering

University of Tasmania
