---
layout: post
title: Various PhD positions in ocean sciences (Miami, Florida)
subtitle: UUniversity of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science 
tags: [PhD, USA, numerical modelling, observations]
comments: false
---
Please see below of opportunities and contact information for faculty that are accepting applications for Ph.D. opportunities (fully funded) at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science for Fall 2022 (more will be added as we move into Fall semester) The majority of Ph.D. students are supported as Graduate Research Assistants during their tenure (typically 5 years). These assistantships provide an annual salary of $30,312, and tuition and health insurance are provided for all students:

    NOAA Living Marine Resources Cooperative Science Center, Dr. Elizabeth Babcock, MBE 
    FOCUS: Florida Current and Sea Level, Dr. Lisa Beal, OCE
    Examining the Causes of Trends in the Context of a Variable Subpolar North Atlantic Ocean, Dr. Amy Clement, ATM
    The Role of Marine Teleost Fish in the Inorganic Carbon Cycle, Dr. Martin Grosell, MBE 
    Dynamics of the Agulhas Return Current, Dr. Igor Kamenkovich, OCE
    Investigating the Role of Metastable Carbonates in the Oceanic Carbon Cycle, Dr. Amanda Oehlert, MGS
    Shallow Marine Diagenesis in 3D, Dr. Amanda Oehlert, MGS
    Satellite Remote Sensing of Land-Falling Hurricanes, Dr. Roland Romeiser, OCE
    Ocean-Atmosphere Interactions During Hurricanes, Dr. Nick Shay, MPO/OCE
    Ocean Heat Uptake and Global Climate Sensitivity, Dr. Brian Soden, ATM/MPO

The full list (with contact info) can be found here: https://graduate.rsmas.miami.edu/admissions/phd-assistanships/index.html 
