---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in ocean acidification (Princeton, New Jersey)
subtitle: Princeton University
tags: [postdoc, USA, observations, stressors, acidification]
comments: false
---
The Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Program at Princeton University in cooperation with NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL) seeks a postdoctoral or more senior scientist to identify oceanic areas subject to extremes in individual and multiple biogeochemical stressors (e.g. ocean acidification, temperature, ocean deoxygenation), and evaluate against site-specific observations to help inform requirements for future instrument deployment, as well as the development of sustainable management strategies. The incumbent will leverage GFDL?s existing 1/2 degree fully-coupled Earth System Model (ESM4.1) and an experimental suite including historical, climate change, mitigation, and idealized scenarios to a) conduct time slice model simulations to generate required model output, b) assess global and regional trends and variability of ocean stressor extremes, c) implement a coastal residence time tracer, and d) assess coastal residence times. The incumbent will also conduct place-based analyses of multiple stressor extremes through compiling and assessing NOAA Ocean Acidification Program (OAP) buoy observations for comparison to model data. Lastly, the incumbent will develop a compilation of co-located marine stressors and associated ecosystem metrics for US territorial waters and Marine Protected Areas. Personnel will join an active group at Princeton and GFDL studying the connections between biogeochemistry, ecosystems, and climate (https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/marine-ecosystems/).

This is a one-year appointment, renewable each year up to three years pending satisfactory performance and funding. This position is based at GFDL in Princeton, New Jersey. Complete applications, including a cover letter, CV, publication list, a one to two-page statement of research interests and names of at least 3 references in order to solicit letters of recommendation, should be submitted online https://www.princeton.edu/acad-positions/position/19941 by May 1, 2021 11:59 p.m. EST for full consideration, though evaluation will be ongoing.

Essential Qualifications: PhD is required. Candidates with quantitative, interdisciplinary knowledge from subsets of fields including climate dynamics, ocean and coastal biogeochemistry, marine ecosystem dynamics, and fisheries science and management are particularly encouraged to apply. Experience analyzing large data sets and/or model output is also critical, as is model development experience for those positions.

This position is subject to the University's background check policy.  Princeton University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
