---
layout: post
title: Assistant Professor of Marine and Coastal Science
subtitle: Department of Environmental Sciences, Marine and Coastal Science (MACS), Western Washington University, Bellingham, WA, USA
tags: [tenure-track, USA, physical oceanography, coastal science]
comments: false
---

The Department of Environmental Sciences and the Marine and Coastal Science (MACS) program at Western Washington University (WWU) invite applications for a tenure-track, assistant professor position in Marine and Coastal Science, beginning Fall 2021.


Western Washington University, with over 16,000 students in seven colleges and the graduate school, is nationally recognized for its educational programs, students and faculty. The campus is located in Bellingham, Washington, a coastal community of 90,000 overlooking Bellingham Bay, the San Juan Islands and the Cascade mountain range. The city lies 90 miles north of Seattle, 60 miles south of Vancouver, British Columbia, and 45 miles NW of Shannon Point Marine Center (SPMC), the teaching and research facility located in Anacortes, WA.


The Marine and Coastal Science program (<https://marine.wwu.edu/>) brings together faculty, staff, and students from four academic departments housed in two colleges, in addition to Western?s marine laboratory, the Shannon Point Marine Center. The MACS academic program is based on the main campus in Bellingham, with opportunities for research activities, short-term residential experiences, and regular weekly meetings of some courses at the Shannon Point Marine Center in Anacortes.  The cohort-based program of study provides a strong foundation in basic science, broad knowledge of marine systems, and opportunities for interdisciplinary, hands-on study.


We seek applicants whose research and teaching focus on physical oceanography and transport, examining circulation and ocean transport processes including tides, currents, hydrodynamics (small and/or large scale), freshwater input, winds, and coastal processes.  Specific domains could include bio-physical interactions; biogeochemical fluxes; transport of materials such as pollutants, sediments, or plankton; and/or ocean-climate interactions (e.g., ocean dynamics, global change, and how the coast, atmosphere, and ocean interact).  Generalized approaches could include instrumentation, field-based observational methods, numerical modeling, or specialized statistics, such as time-series analysis or spatial statistics.


We seek candidates who are committed to a multidisciplinary, collaborative approach to scholarship and teaching, and who can contribute to upper-level core classes in the MACS program (e.g., team teaching marine physical processes with biologists, chemists, geologists).  Additional focus areas for teaching include introductory marine science, quantitative methods or modeling, as well as developing specialty elective courses.  Teaching assignments for this position will be distributed evenly between environmentally-oriented courses offered in Environmental Sciences and interdisciplinary marine science courses offered in MACS.


Application review begins March 1, 2021; position is open until filled.


For more detailed information about this position and how to submit an application, please visit  this link: <https://employment.wwu.edu/en-us/job/498260/assistant-professor-of-marine-and-coastal-science>


Western Washington University (WWU) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to assembling a diverse, broadly trained faculty and staff. Women, minorities, people with disabilities and veterans are strongly encouraged to apply. In compliance with applicable laws and in furtherance of its commitment to fostering an environment that welcomes and embraces diversity, WWU does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy and parenting status), disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status or genetic information in its programs or activities, including employment, admissions, and educational programs.  Inquiries may be directed to the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Compliance, Title IX and ADA Coordinator, Western Washington University, Old Main 345 (MS 9021), 516 High Street, Bellingham, WA 98225; 360.650.3307 (voice); crtc@wwu.edu<mailto:crtc@wwu.
 edu>


You can obtain a copy of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report in printed or alternate formats by contacting the Office of the Vice President for Enrollment and Student Services at vpsa.office@wwu.edu<mailto:vpsa.office@wwu.edu>.


WWU is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities upon request. To request this document in an alternate format or to request an accommodation, please contact Human Resources Disability Services<https://wp.wwu.edu/hr/2015/09/02/i-need-a-workplace-accommodation/>, 360.650.3774.


All new employees must comply with the immunization policy and show employment eligibility verification as required by the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Service before beginning work at WWU. A thorough background check will be conducted on all new hires.
