---
layout: post
title: Graduate student positions in coral geochemistry (Tallahassee, Florida)
subtitle: Florida State University
tags: [PhD, USA, observations, Pacific ocean, past climate]
comments: false
---
We are recruiting 1-2 graduate students (MS or PhD) for funded positions in the Tropical Paleoclimate Dynamics Lab in the Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Science at Florida State University (FSU) to begin in Fall 2022. Potential research topics include reconstructing past tropical Pacific climate change using the trace element geochemistry of coral skeletons. The student(s) will gain experience working with cutting-edge geoanalytical techniques and instrumentation (including a Thermo Fisher Element 2 High Resolution ICP-MS and a Element XR High Resolution LA-ICP-MS). The student will also have the opportunity to work with global climate models and perform data-model intercomparisons. Students with a BS or MS in chemistry, physics, math, oceanography, atmospheric sciences, geology, or environmental science are especially encouraged to apply.
Please visit our lab website (https://alyssaatwood.weebly.com/opportunities.html) for more information about the position and the department website (https://www.eoas.fsu.edu/) for information about the EOAS graduate program. Applications should be received by January 15th for Fall 2022 admission.
About the university and area:
FSU is a Top 20 national public research university located in Tallahassee, Florida. Situated in the Big Bend region of northern Florida, it has a four-season climate with over 230 days of sunshine per year. Characterized by rolling hills, forests, karst springs, and nearby beaches, there are ample opportunities for hiking, biking, kayaking, and fishing. As the capital city of Florida, home to two major public universities, the city enjoys a vibrant arts and cultural scene, many collegiate sports, a diverse foodie scene, and lots of outdoor and family-friendly activities. Florida residents do not pay State of Florida income taxes and the cost of living is low relative to many parts of the country.
Interested students are encouraged to contact Dr. Alyssa Atwood (aatwood@fsu.edu<mailto:aatwood@fsu.edu>) and/or Hussein Sayani (hsayani@fsu.edu<mailto:hsayani@fsu.edu>). We look forward to hearing from you!
