---
layout: post
title: Position in storm surge risk modelling (London, UK)
subtitle: Risk Management Solutions (RMS)
tags: [UK, numerical modelling, storm surges]
comments: false
---

Risk Management Solutions (RMS) is the world's leading provider of mathematical models and information related to the financial impact of natural catastrophes. We are looking for a modeler to join our model development group within the storm surge risk team, located in our London office

Details and job description below. Applications at https://www.rms.com/careers/jobs?p=job%2FodW4efwb

 

Overview:

Our Model Development department has fifty PhD scientists and engineers based in London, building mathematical models that predict damage caused by tropical storms, extra-tropical storms, thunderstorms, storm surges, freshwater floods and tsunamis.

We use a combination of observed data, reanalysis data, numerical, statistical and engineering models and data assimilation. We are the pioneers in the development and application of complex statistical and numerical modelling methods for the quantification of natural hazard risk, and our risk models are the most detailed and comprehensive models of natural catastrophes produced anywhere in the world.

Our clients include several hundred insurance and reinsurance companies as well as brokers, banks, hedge funds, regional and local governments, and multilateral agencies.

Objective of the Role:

We are currently recruiting for a role related to the modelling of storm-surge, waves, overtopping and coastal flooding in various parts of the world. The modelling work carried out by this team encompasses all steps from hazard modelling to loss modelling. The department has an engaged working environment with a clear scientific, motivated, and technological atmosphere.

 

Key Responsibilities & Deliverables:

    Building and developing the storm surge & wave model components
    Evaluating model results (both hazard and loss) by comparison to observed data and loss benchmarks
    Further advancement of modules by researching and implementing novel scientific techniques
    Communicating research to clients and other stakeholders

Requirements:

    PhD in a field related to physical oceanography, geophysical flows, storm-surge or other aspects of coastal ocean modelling.  Strong candidates with a relevant MSc and appropriate research or work experience would also be considered
    Experience working with high-performance clusters in a UNIX or Linux environment
    Experience with either numerical models (such as AGCMs, OGCMs, CGCMs, regional models or mesoscale models), handling large data sets, or statistical modelling
    Strong programming ability in scientific and analytical programming languages (e.g. R, Python, Fortran)
    Strong analytical skills and ability to effectively communicate insights to internal and external stakeholders

Advantageous:

    Familiarity and interest in state-of-the-art methods including AI and ML would be highly advantageous
    Previous experience in catastrophe modeling, or specific expertise in modelling natural hazards is valued but not necessary
    Experience in implementing, developing or optimising code for modelling of geophysical flows would also be a strong advantage

 

Please provide your CV highlighting the salient education and experience, and a Cover Letter demonstrating how these meet the requirements of the position.

About RMS

There is a 1% chance an earthquake will cause $50 billion of insured loss within the next 12 months and a 5% chance that a hurricane will cause $60 billion of insured losses next year. At RMS, we turn risks into real numbers. How? By building simulation models that allow insurers and investors to understand and manage their global risks--from hurricanes, quakes, and wildfires, to cyberattacks, terror attacks, and pandemics. Why? We want to build a more resilient world, and we are on a mission to help make every risk known.

Insurers, reinsurers, investors, financial institutions, governments, and NGOs trust RMS solutions to better understand and manage catastrophe risks. RMS was founded in 1989 by Stanford scientists who created our first model for California Earthquake. Today, RMS has some 1,300 employees across 13 offices in the US, London, Bermuda, Zurich, India, China, Japan, Singapore, and Australia, and over 1,000 products and models now covering six continents.

RMS helped pioneer the natural catastrophe model market we now lead – and we continue to innovate. In May 2019, we announced RMS Risk Intelligence™ (RI), an open-standard platform for strategic risk management. Through this purpose-built platform, clients can tap into RMS HD models, rich data layers, intuitive applications and APIs that simply integrate into existing enterprise systems to support business decisions across underwriting, risk selection, mitigation, and portfolio management.

How we understand and manage risk affects everyone and our passion is nothing less than creating a more resilient world through a better understanding of catastrophic events. Join our team of leading scientists, developers, industry experts, and world-class professionals. Together, RMSers make a difference on a truly global scale.

Visit RMS.com to learn more and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter. 

RMS is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace. We are committed to equal employment opportunity without regard to race, color, creed, gender, religion, marital status, registered domestic partner status, age, national origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability, genetic characteristics, sexual orientation, or any other classification protected by applicable local, state, or federal law.

To all recruitment agencies: RMS does not accept unsolicited agency resumes and will not be responsible for the payment of placement fees related to unsolicited resumes submitted to open positions, job aliases, or to our employees. 

Applicants residing in Europe: By applying for a job with Risk Management Solutions (“RMS”), including submitting your resume or CV, via the “Careers” section of the RMS website (“Website”), you agree to the use of your Personal Information as described in the Privacy Policy for the Website.  Please visit http://www.rms.com/legal.  Jobvite assists RMS with submissions of job applications through such “Careers” section of the Website – the “Careers” section is “powered by Jobvite.”  The information practices of Jobvite are governed by Jobvite’s privacy statements.  RMS encourages you to review Jobvite’s privacy statements, located at www.jobvite.com, to understand their information practices.
