---
layout: post
title: GO-SHIP Marine Data Manager/Technician
subtitle: University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA
tags: [data manager, technician, USA, GO-SHIP, observations, data collection, data analysis]
comments: false
---

GO-SHIP Marine Data Manager/Technician
 
To Apply: Submit to Job # 107760 in jobs.ucsd.edu (direct link: <https://jobs.ucsd.edu/bulletin/job.aspx?jobnum_in=107760>)
 
Filing Deadline: Thu 2/11/2021


DEPARTMENT OVERVIEW
The Global Ocean Ship-based Hydrographic Investigations Program (GO-SHIP) brings together scientists with interests in physical oceanography, the carbon cycle, marine biogeochemistry and ecosystems, and other users and collectors of ocean interior data, and coordinates a network of globally sustained hydrographic sections as part of the global ocean/climate observing system. CCHDO is the data center supporting GO-SHIP, ensuring that the data collected is findable and accessible online in well-describe standardized formats (cchdo.ucsd.edu). The Oceanographic Data Facility (ODF) is part of Shipboard Technical Support (STS) that provides specialized expertise, personnel, instrumentation and support services to US GO-SHIP cruises. ODF personnel participate in large-scale worldwide oceanographic expeditions providing reference quality data to researchers in the U.S. and abroad.
 

DESCRIPTION
This position has two components: shore-side data analysis and management, and at-sea support of data collection.

The shore-side work: Acquires hydrographic data from researchers and performs "Level 0" quality control to check and standardize formats, parameter names, and units; performs “Level 1” quality control, checking for consistency/precision/accuracy within one cruise’s Level 1 data sets identify errors such as wrong flag sets, mismatches between datetimes or locations, etc. Communicates with scientists as needed to resolve quality issues; assemble datasets into community-standard merged products; work to increase CCHDO efficiency and improve QC procedures, developing new routines and tools as needed; track timelines and data due dates across cruises.
 
The at-sea work: Acquire and process all conductivity, temperature, depth and oxygen profile (CTDO) data on research expeditions utilizing established processing methods and routines. Consult with other data analysts, technicians, and scientists to make recommendations for updating and improving the processing routines. Develop, maintain and document Python scientific software used for processing data. Communicate with international researchers on results from previous cruises.Works on research data reporting assignments that are of moderate diversity in scope. Exercises judgment within generally defined practices and policies in selecting methods and techniques for obtaining solutions.


QUALIFICATIONS

    Working knowledge of research function. Demonstrated background in Physical and/or Chemical Oceanography
    Working skills in statistical analysis, systems programming, database design and data security measures. Knowledge of data management and programming best practices, including Python.
    Working skills in analysis and consultation. Background/knowledge of CTD data collection and processing steps.
    Skills to communicate complex information in a clear and concise manner both verbally and in writing. Ability to work with and interact effectively with various oceanographic researchers, principal investigators, and data product end-users.
    Strong interpersonal skills, including initiative and diplomacy, and the ability to work with people from diverse background and educational levels.
    Strong attention to detail in processing, integrating, documenting and reporting large scale hydrographic data sets. Experience in acquisition, maintenance and manipulation of large and varied data sets and formats.
    Ability to work independently with a strong ability to prioritize work and meet deadlines in a high production environment with rapidly changing work requirements.
    Knowledge and familiarity with oceanographic data sets, and is comfortable handling and interpreting them as needed.
    SQL and experience with relational databases

 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

    Must be willing and able to participate on research cruises of up to 2 months duration, for a total of up to 3-4 months annually.
    Must possess a U.S. passport to travel globally without restriction.
    Must be able to obtain a Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC).

 
Our employees enjoy competitive compensation packages and educational opportunities in a diverse, stimulating workforce.
This position is eligible for full benefits first day of hire:
a) Health/Dental/Vision Insurance
b) Vacation/holidays (15 vacation days & 13 paid holidays a year)
c) Work/Life Balance
d) Life insurance
e) UC Retirement Plan 
f) Pet Insurance


For more information about UCSD Benefits please click here and visit UCSD Work/Life.
To calculate an approximate value of the UC Total Compensation package, please click here.