---
layout: post
title: Software engineer position in operational oceanography (Silver Spring, Maryland)
subtitle: OCS Coast Survey Laboratory
tags: [engineer, USA, numerical modelling, coastal ocean, operational oceanography]
comments: false
---


Apply at:
https://ucar.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UCAR_Careers/job/Coast-Survey-Development-Lab/Software-Engineer-III_REQ-2021-208-1


Location: This position will be located at the Coastal Marine Modeling
Branch in OCS Coast Survey Laboratory (Silver Spring, MD or Durham, NH).

Application Deadline: This position will be posted until filled.

Term: Regular, no term.

Relocation: No Relocation Assistance is available for this position.

Work Authorization: UCAR|NCAR will not sponsor a work visa (e.g., J-1,
H1-B, etc.) for this position.

Salary:
Hiring Range $97,404 - $121,754
Full Salary Range $97,404 - $158,282

Benefits: UCAR affirms its continuing commitment to developing, providing,
and administering its employee benefit programs with due consideration for
equal employment opportunity and diversity guidelines. UCAR's rich package
of employee benefits includes medical, dental, vision, education
assistance, retirement, and life insurance. UCAR offers a variety of
programs designed to assist with work-life balance including flexible work
alternatives, paid time off and 14 weeks of paid parental leave.


Who we are:

*The Cooperative Programs for the Advancement of Earth System Science
(**CPAESS)
serves the Earth system science community in three distinct areas of
service. We partner with federal agencies and businesses to hire critical
scientific staff enabling a more robust workforce. Through our scientific
programs we seek to edify new research with our postdoctoral programs, our
visiting scientist and internship programs, along with our interagency
support programs. We also help build the Earth system science community by
convening and managing summer schools and institutes, conferences, and
advisory committees. *

What You Will Do:

NOAA's Office of Coast Survey (OCS), the largest program office within the
National Ocean Service, was originally formed by President Thomas Jefferson
in 1807. Coast Survey maintains the nation's nautical charts, surveys the
coastal seafloor, responds to national maritime emergencies, develops and
evaluates 3-D oceanographic forecast modeling systems for coastal waters,
and searches for underwater obstructions and wreckage.

In support of NOAA's Office of Coast Survey (OCS), this position will work
as part of a team on the design and development of cloud-native serverless
and/or container-based solutions to support geospatial data processing and
management and oceanographic forecast model development and operations.
This position will develop functional, performance, and capacity testing
tools, and will lead the analysis of test results that will be used to
evaluate the correctness and capabilities of system deployments in a cloud
environment.

This position will support  the NOAA Data Processing and Precision
Navigation Dissemination System and the National Ocean Service/Office of
Coast Survey?s NOAA nowCOAST GIS web mapping portal (
https://nowcoast.noaa.gov) through design, development, testing,
implementation, and support of cloud-based data acquisition, processing,
ingest, and dissemination software along with supporting cloud
infrastructure using modern Agile and DevOps software development practices.

This position will support OCS? projects to develop, test, and run
numerical oceanographic modeling systems on High Performance Computing
(HPC) clusters in the cloud using AWS HPC solution components (e.g., AWS
ParallelCluster).  The position would also assist in developing software to
post-process and analyze output from the forecast models using AWS services
(e.g., Amazon Athena).  The work will be conducted using modern Agile and
DevOps software development practices.

This position will be located at the Coastal Marine Modeling Branch in OCS
Coast Survey Development Laboratory, with locations in either Silver
Spring, Maryland or Durham, New Hampshire.

Responsibilities:

As part of the DevOps team, lead projects to operate, monitor, and maintain
high-reliability cloud-based infrastructure and applications using a
variety of software including Docker, Kubernetes, Prometheus, InfluxDB, and
Grafana, and various cloud Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and
Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings.

Develop event-based, parallel, distributed geospatial data processing
solutions using Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda, Step Functions, and/or
other cloud-native technologies to ingest and process near-real-time NOAA
datasets and develop and operate HPC-required numerical oceanographic
forecast modeling systems.

Configure, test, and optimize container-based application deployments for
running on scalable cloud-hosted infrastructure using Docker, Kubernetes,
and other related software.

Develop software libraries and tools for automating the configuration,
deployment, and administration of open-source geospatial web services
infrastructure based on PostgreSQL relational database management system,
GeoServer, GeoWebCache tiling server, nginx web server, and/or other
open-source software packages.

Collaborate on the design and development of front-end web applications
using OpenLayers, ReactJS and Material UI for data access and visualization.

Develop automated testing frameworks for evaluating system functionality,
performance, capacity, and security compliance using industry-standard
testing practices and toolkits.

Integrate software building, testing, and deployment processes with
Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery pipelines to facilitate rapid
but well-tested deployment of new application versions.

What You Will Need:

Education and Years of Experience:

REQUIRED:

   - Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science or related discipline
   and eight to twelve years of experience; or equivalent combination of
   relevant experience and education.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

REQUIRED

   - Advanced knowledge of core software design, development, testing, and
   debugging principles.
   - Advanced knowledge of source code version control best practices &
   experience with distributed version control software (e.g., Git).
   - Advanced knowledge of and experience developing software for
   Linux-based computer systems.
   - Demonstrated skill in developing and deploying Python scripts,
   modules, and packages.
   - Experience interacting with relational database systems (e.g.,
   PostgreSQL/PostGIS) and writing SQL queries.
   - Strong knowledge of web service architecture and experience developing
   & interacting with RESTful web service endpoints.
   - Demonstrated skill in building, deploying, operating, and monitoring
   containerized applications using cloud-native open-source software
   including Docker, Kubernetes, Prometheus, InfluxDB, and Grafana.
   - Demonstrated skill in applying basic software development process to
   computing applications and/or programming problems and an interest in
   learning new programming languages and cloud tools and services.
   - Skill in presentation, negotiation and persuasion.
   - Excellent written and oral communication skills.
   - Ability to convey highly technical concepts to others of various
   technical backgrounds.
   - Ability to prioritize assigned tasks effectively.

DESIRED, BUT NOT REQUIRED

   - Experience working with commercial cloud products & services including
   AWS Lambda, Simple Queue Service (SQS), Elastic File System (EKS), Simple
   Storage Service (S3), Relational Database Service (RDS), and managing cloud
   infrastructure using open-source infrastructure-as-code tools (e.g.
   Terraform).
   - Demonstrated skill in designing, conducting, and analyzing results
   from web application performance tests using Apache JMeter or related
   software.
   - Experience working with web services including web mapping services.
   - Experience with OpenLayers, ReactJS and MaterialUI in developing
   front-end applications.
   - Experience with unit testing of object-oriented software.
   - Interest in learning about NOAA?s near-real-time meteorological,
   oceanographic, and hydrographic data and information.

Applicant Notes:

   - Pre-employment screenings and background checks are conducted in
   conjunction with an offer for employment into risk-based positions. This
   screening may involve verifying or reviewing any of the following relevant
   information: restricted parties screening, employment verification,
   education verification, reference checks, verification of professional
   licenses, certifications, and Motor Vehicle Records.  In addition to
   pre-employment screenings, risked-based positions require a criminal
   background check and Sex Offender Registry (for positions working with
   vulnerable populations). UCAR complies with the Fair Credit Reporting Act
   (FCRA).
   - This position is subject to IT system requirements for obtaining
   access to IT networks and applications. These requirements may include a
   combination of national security checks, credit checks, fingerprinting, or
   other security clearance requirements.  This position is open to U.S.
   Citizens and Green Card holders.
   - Please note that while the position description details both minimum
   requirements as well as desired skills and experience, we want to remind
   applicants that you do not need to have all the desired skills and
   experience to be considered for this role. If you have the passion for the
   work along with experience in a related field, you are encouraged to apply.
   We can provide on-the-job training for the rest.
   - For more information about our commitment to diversity, equity, and
   inclusion, here is the link to the Office of Diversity, Equity &
   Inclusion Strategic Plan
   <https://www.ucar.edu/sites/default/files/documents/related-links/2020-12/ODEI_StrategicPlan_Final.pdf>
    and to the ODEI landing page
   <https://www.ucar.edu/who-we-are/diversity-inclusion>.
