---
layout: post
title: Four tenure-track positions in sea-going oceanography (Corvallis, Oregon)
subtitle: Oregon State University
tags: [tenure, USA, observations, physical oceanography, chemical oceanography]
comments: false
---

The College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences (CEOAS) at Oregon
State University is pleased to re-open the search for four (4)
research-focused, tenure-track, open rank professor positions, who
maintain or have the potential to maintain sea-going research programs.
Given the extensive delay in this hiring action we are inviting new
applicants as well as encouraging previous applicants to update their
application materials. This is a cluster hire that promotes
interdisciplinary research across four focus areas: Biological
Oceanography, Chemical Oceanography, Physical Oceanography, and Marine
Geology and Geophysics. Applications to more than one position are
suggested for candidates with interdisciplinary focus.

Additional information and application procedures are available at
https://ceoas.oregonstate.edu/cluster-hire/

Review of applications will begin on April 16, 2021 and continue until
April 30, 2021. Please direct questions about the position to the search
committee chairs

Inquiries about this sea-going cluster hire may be directed to Drs.
Marta Torres (marta.torres@oregonstate.edu), Byron Crump
(byron.crump@oregonstate.edu), Rob Harris
(robert.harris@oregonstate.edu), and Kipp Shearman
(kipp.shearman@oregonstate.edu). For questions regarding the application
process, please contact Karen Edwards (karen.edwards@oregonstate.edu).
