---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in ocean color remote sensing (Wimereux, France)
subtitle: French Space Agency (CNES)
tags: [postdoc, France, satellite observations, ocean color]
comments: false
---

The “Remote Sensing and Hydrodynamics” team of the Laboratory of
Oceanology and Geosciences (Wimereux, France) invites applicants for a
Postdoc position in active remote sensing of the ocean color.

The successful candidate will participate in a project funded by the
French Space Agency (CNES) on the study of space-borne lidar for ocean
color. The candidate will be involved in different tasks: evaluation and
validation of current data processing for CALIOP and ATLAS lidars using
in-situ measurements; inter-comparison of lidar simulators; development
of a new data processing algorithm.

See details below. For more info please contact Cédric Jamet: cedric.jamet@univ-littoral.fr


**Postdoc Position in Oceanic Lidar Applications to Ocean Color**

The “Remote Sensing and Hydrodynamics” team of the Laboratory of Oceanology and
Geosciences (Wimereux, France) invites applicants for a Postdoc position in active remote
sensing of the ocean color.

The successful candidate will participate in a project funded by the French Space Agency
(CNES) on the study of space-borne lidar for ocean color. The candidate will be involved in
different tasks: evaluation and validation of current data processing for CALIOP and ATLAS
lidars using in-situ measurements; inter-comparison of lidar simulators; development of a new
data processing algorithm.

Qualifications: PhD degree in remote sensing. Expertise in lidar is ideal. Knowledge in ocean
optics.

Technical skills required: Programming (matlab, python, C), satellite imagery processing,
statistical analysis skills.

Application closure date: May 15, 2021

Start date: From June 2021

Position Length: Initial contract for 11 months; up to 3 years, pending annual review and
funding

Salary: depending of experience

Location: LOG, 32 avenue Foch, 62930 Wimereux, France

Applicants must submit:
- A detailed CV, including the e-mail and phone number for three references
- A short cover letter explaining the applicant’s experience related to the position and
motivation

For question and application’s submission, please contact:
Cédric Jamet: cedric.jamet@univ-littoral.fr
