---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in coastal physical oceanography (Seattle, Washington)
subtitle: Applied Physics Laboratory
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, satellite observations, coastal ocean]
comments: false
---

We're recruiting a postdoctoral scholar in coastal physical oceanography at
the Applied Physics Lab at the University of Washington, to focus on
modeling and remote sensing of nearshore rip-current plumes behaving as
gravity currents, sources of nearshore temperature variability, cross-shore
exchange, or related topics.

Review of applications will begin in December. The start date is expected
to be anytime in calendar year 2022 and the duration of the appointment is
2 years.

See below or here (https://apply.interfolio.com/97996) for more details,
and feel free to reach out with any questions!

Melissa Moulton & Chris Chickadel
mmoulton@uw.edu, chickadel@apl.washington.edu


*Description*

The Applied Physics Laboratory at the University of Washington
(APL-UW) invites applications for a postdoctoral researcher in coastal
physical oceanography as part of a National Science Foundation (NSF) funded
study of the dynamics of rip currents and cross-shore exchange between the
surf zone and inner shelf in the presence of temperature gradients. The
postdoc will use a combination of existing airborne (infrared, visible,
radar) and in situ observations (shipboard and mooring temperature,
velocity, turbidity) and idealized coupled wave-ocean modeling (ROMS and
SWAN within the COAWST modeling system) to investigate the dynamics of
nearshore rip-current plumes, which are important for the exchange of
larvae, pollutants, and sediment between land and the shelf.

Specific research directions will be designed by the postdoctoral
investigator with the team, and could include dependence of rip-current
plume behavior on density gradients and wave forcing, causes of more
buoyant or dense surfzone waters relative to the shelf, interaction of
plumes with internal waves and other shelf processes, applications to
harmful algal blooms, or other topics to be determined. The postdoc will
work directly with investigators in the Air-Sea Interaction and Remote
Sensing Department (AIRS) in APL-UW as well as the University of Washington
Environmental Fluid Mechanics (EFM) group. The postdoc will collaborate
with additional study participants at APL-UW, UW School of Oceanography,
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and additional institutions. The role
of the postdoc will be using the COAWST modeling framework for coupled
wave-ocean simulations, the analysis of remote sensing and in situ
observations, and model-data comparison, theoretical analysis, and
dissemination of results at workshops, conferences and through
peer-reviewed journals.

The postdoc will be based at the University of Washington ? Seattle Campus
with the possibility for hybrid telework arrangement. The start date is
expected within calendar year 2022 and the duration of appointment is 2
years (24 months).


*Qualifications*

We strive to promote greater diversity among applicants
than is currently found in our field, and we strongly encourage
applications from all groups that are underrepresented in the Geosciences. To
this end, the position is open to capable doctoral recipients in STEM
research fields, including candidates holding degrees or graduating from
institutions not specializing in physical oceanography.

Candidates must have received a Ph.D. in a STEM field by the time of
appointment, with extensive background in physical or environmental
sciences, or engineering. Candidates should have experience in, or aptitude
for, numerical modeling and self-directed research focused on the
application of physical science to the natural environment. Mathematical
skills, familiarity with the Linux computing environment, and demonstrated
experience with Python, Matlab, or other programming languages are
prerequisites for this position. Desired skills include experience with
ROMS, the COAWST modeling system, or similar numerical modeling tools, and
familiarity with remote sensing methods.

Ability to communicate scientific results to both broad and expert
audiences, orally and in writing, is indispensable to both this position
and any subsequent appointments at APL-UW. In addition to disseminating
results at major conferences and in peer-reviewed journals, postdocs are
encouraged and mentored in writing grant proposals. A notable feature of
APL postdoc positions is the ability to submit grant proposals as PIs under
supervision, with the goal of establishing an independent research program
and career path.

University of Washington postdoctoral scholar appointments are for a
temporary, defined period not to exceed five years/60 months, including any
previous postdoctoral experiences. Finalist will have no more than 36
months of total postdoctoral experience at start date to be eligible for
the expected 24 months of this position.


*Application Instructions*

Each applicant will be expected to submit:

   1. A CV including demonstrated scholarly output (e.g., list of
   publications, presentations, public datasets or code)
   2. Cover letter with a brief description of present and future research
   interests

To request disability accommodation in the application process, please
contact the UW's Disability Services Office at 206-543-6450, or
206-543-6452 (TTY), or dso@uw.edu.

Informal inquiries on duties or requirements are encouraged to contact
Drs. Melissa Moulton
(https://apl.uw.edu/people/profile.php?last_name=Moulton&first_name=Melissa)
 and C. Chris Chickadel
(https://apl.uw.edu/people/profile.php?last_name=Chickadel&first_name=Chris)
.

Review of applications is expected to begin in December and will continue
until the position is filled.

*ABOUT APL*

The Applied Physics Laboratory is a research unit at the University of
Washington. Our research expertise is in ocean physics and engineering,
ocean and medical acoustics, polar science, environmental remote sensing,
and signal processing. We conduct research and development that is
sponsored by a variety of federal and state agencies, and take great pride
in our long-standing status as a US Navy-designated University Affiliated
Research Center (UARC). Our work takes place not only on the University of
Washington campus and medical centers, but in field locations around the
world ? at sea, in the air, and on polar ice caps. We apply rigorous
scientific inquiry and engineering excellence in pursuit of solutions to
important problems for the good of our region, nation, and world.

*University of Washington Environmental Fluid Mechanics*
The EFM group <http://depts.washington.edu/uwefm/wordpress/home/research/>
brings
together researchers from across UW interested in the fluid mechanics of
rivers, lakes, and oceans. The students, postdocs, faculty, and staff in
the group are committed to creating and upholding a diverse, collaborative,
and inclusive environment. The goal of the Environmental Fluid Mechanics
group is to advance impactful, rigorous research to serve society and
understand environmental change. The research within this group spans a
wide range of applications in the environment, from theoretical models of
turbulence to coastal management questions. We foster open access in our
research, including sharing ideas, methods, and results in accessible
formats. Our group meets weekly to discuss technical aspects of research as
well as to build community and just have fun.


*Application Process*

This institution is using Interfolio's Faculty Search
to conduct this search. Applicants to this position receive a free Dossier
account and can send all application materials, including confidential
letters of recommendation, free of charge.
Apply Now <https://dossier.interfolio.com/apply/97996>


*Equal Employment Opportunity Statement*

University of Washington is an
affirmative action and equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants
will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status,
pregnancy, genetic information, gender identity or expression, age,
disability, or protected veteran status.

*Commitment to Diversity*

The University of Washington is committed to building diversity among its
faculty, librarian, staff, and student communities, and articulates that
commitment in the UW Diversity Blueprint (
http://www.washington.edu/diversity/diversity-blueprint/). Additionally,
the University?s Faculty Code recognizes faculty efforts in research,
teaching and/or service that address diversity and equal opportunity as
important contributions to a faculty member?s academic profile and
responsibilities (
https://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/FCG/FCCH24.html#2432).


*COVID-19 Vaccine Requirements and Information*

Under Washington State
Governor Inslee's Proclamation 21-14.1
<https://www.governor.wa.gov/sites/default/files/proclamations/21-14.1%20-%20COVID-19%20Vax%20Washington%20Amendment.pdf?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery>,
University of Washington (UW) workers must be fully vaccinated against
COVID-19 and provide proof thereof, or receive a UW-approved medical or
religious exemption. This requirement will be a condition of any offer
associated with this recruitment. For more information, please visit
https://www.washington.edu/coronavirus/vaccination-requirement/.
