---
layout: post
title: PhD position on carbon uptake in the NorthWest Pacific (Honolulu, Hawaii)
subtitle: University of Hawaii at Manoa
tags: [PhD, USA, observations, carbon, biogeochemistry, Pacific Ocean]
comments: false
---
We seek a graduate student interested in chemical oceanography / ocean biogeochemistry to join an NSF funded project at the University of Hawai’i at Mānoa. The goal of this 3-yr project is to understand the large-scale drivers of ocean carbon uptake in the Kuroshio Extension region of the NW Pacific Ocean and determine the relative contribution of physical and biological processes that control the uptake of carbon and oxygen. This region is one of the global hotspots of ocean carbon uptake, thus playing a key role in regional and global climate. This work will be done by combining the new observations with the most recent ocean state estimates that model both the oceanic circulation and the biogeochemical processes. We will deploy 5 biogeochemical profiling floats in two regions of the North Pacific where large masses of water (called “mode waters”) form, which represent one of the major pathways of carbon dioxide in the ocean interior. Mode waters connect the polar ocean regions to lower latitudes, playing a fundamental role in transporting nutrients and carbon into the ocean interior.

The student will analyze the new float observations, existing float and shipboard data, and ocean state estimate output to help identify and quantify the mechanisms driving carbon export in this important, but poorly sampled region. The graduate student will also interact and meet with project co-PIs Dr. Ivana Cerovecki and Dr. Manfredi Manizza at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, San Diego. Overall, I am looking for someone interested in understanding how physics and biology interact to govern the seasonal cycles and the interannual variability of oxygen and carbon fluxes we observe in the ocean.

As a side note, we are also hiring a postdoc to work on a related topic in the Southern Ocean, so the candidate will have a number of people to interact on issues of the role that the mode waters play in driving ocean biogeochemistry.

Desired qualifications: Bachelor’s degree in a science or engineering discipline. Experience in or willingness to learn a coding language (Matlab or Python) for data analysis. 

Closing date: Dec 15, 2021

Webpage link:

https://bushinskyoceanlab.org/people/#Openings
