---
layout: post
title: Research assistant in physical oceanography (Atlanta, Georgia)
subtitle: Georgia Institude of Technology
tags: [research assistant, USA, observations, numerical modelling]
comments: false
---
A research assistant position in oceanography is available at the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences at Georgia Tech. The research assistant will work for Dr. Susan Lozier, the international lead for the Overturning in the Subpolar North Atlantic Program (OSNAP; www.o-snap.org<http://www.o-snap.org>). Specifically, the research assistant will work to support a number of projects focused on measuring and understanding the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation.

The initial term of the appointment will be 12 months, with the possibility of extension for another two years based on performance.

Job Responsibility:  The individual will be expected to analyze data, prepare high-quality graphics, contribute to peer-reviewed publications, assist with research progress reports, organize project meetings, maintain project websites, curate research data and perform administrative tasks such as scheduling and recording project meetings.

Qualifications: A B.S. or M.S. degree in a natural science is required by the time of appointment. Experience with statistical and graphical analysis of data is expected, as is an attention to detail. Excellent organizational and collaborative skills, and strong oral and written communication skills are expected.

Start date: On or about May 1, 2021.

Salary: Commensurate with the individual?s experience and education.

To apply: Interested individuals should send a CV and the names and contact information of at least 3 references to Belal Elnaggar at belnaggar3@gatech.edu<mailto:belnaggar3@gatech.edu>.  Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the position is filled.

Georgia Tech, an institution of the University System of Georgia, is an equal education/employment opportunity institution and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant on the basis of age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any classification protected by federal, state, or local law and requires compliance with the Immigration Control Reform Act of 1986. Consistent with its obligations under federal law, each company that is a federal contractor or subcontractor is committed to taking affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified women, minorities, disabled individuals and veterans. Candidates with the skills and knowledge to productively engage with diverse communities are encouraged to apply.
