---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in ocean dynamics affecting open-ocean productivity
and high-seas salmon (Victoria, Canada)
subtitle: University of Victoria
tags: [postdoc, Canada, observations, North Pacific, ocean dynamics, marine biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---

**Postdoctoral Fellowship in Ocean Dynamics Affecting Open-Ocean Productivity
and High-Seas Salmon**

A glider deployed near Explorer Seamount by the Canadian-Pacific Robotic
Ocean Observing Facility (C-PROOF) team.


*Applications are invited for a two-year postdoctoral fellowship to
study mixed-layer dynamics and coastal-offshore exchange mechanisms in
the Northeast Pacific using a diverse collection of ocean observations
including ocean glider, Argo float, ship-based, and satellite data.*



*Background: *International Year of the Salmon (IYS) is a five-year
initiative that aspires to establish the conditions necessary to ensure the
resilience of salmon and people throughout the Northern Hemisphere. As part
of IYS?s 2022 Pan-Pacific Winter High Seas Expedition, the IYS is funding a
number of postdoctoral positions to create an interdisciplinary team of
young scientists examining and integrating the ocean observations generated
by 5 IYS cruises as well as other relevant data sources. There are
substantial resources available to understand the relevant ocean physics.
The IYS cruises will be collecting CTD/Rosette data and deploying
specialized Argo floats equipped with oxygen sensors. This project will
couple these in situ measurements with satellite ocean colour, altimetry,
and sea surface temperature measurements to construct a synoptic picture of
the North Pacific Ocean. Argo float data may also be used to understand
hydrographic properties on a large scale and in the mixed layer, while Line
P observations, collected from both regular research cruises and from
autonomous gliders moving along Line P, provide an opportunity to construct
a detailed picture of temperature, salinity, oxygen, and chlorophyll in the
upper 1000 m of the ocean along the Line P transect. There is potential to
collect additional glider observations, *e.g.* along a north-south section
through the planned Gulf of Alaska sampling array, from the 2022 expedition.



*Project Goals:* The project aims to use the diverse set of ocean
observations described above to better understand the physical
oceanographic processes that have the potential to influence salmon in the
Northeast Pacific with a focus on mixed-layer dynamics and coastal-offshore
exchange mechanisms. Specific research questions may include (but are not
limited to) the following:


   - What processes regulate the mixed layer depth and resulting habitat
   for salmon offshore? What processes drive restratification in the spring
   and what role does that play in the nutrient and oxygen budgets in the
   upper ocean?
   - How does warm, coastal, nutrient-rich water enter and then mix in the
   Gulf of Alaska, and are the observed stratification and transport processes
   well represented by Northeast Pacific Ocean models?
   - What processes drive mesoscale variability in physical and
   biogeochemical properties in the offshore region?

*Project Team: *The fellow will collaborate closely with a working group
that includes scientists from the University of Victoria, the University of
British Columbia, and the Institute of Ocean Sciences, a scientific
facility of Fisheries and Oceans Canada. Further the fellow will join the
Canadian-Pacific Robotic Ocean Observing Facility (C-PROOF) team. The
project is supervised by Dr. Jody Klymak (University of Victoria), Dr.
Tetjana Ross (Institute of Ocean Sciences), Dr. Stephanie Waterman
(University of British Columbia), Dr. Roberta Hamme (University of
Victoria), and Dr. Amber Holdsworth (Institute of Ocean Sciences).



*Position Responsibilities: *The postdoc will be responsible for the
following tasks within the context of the overall project as described
above:


   - to work with the project team on processing, analyzing and
   interpreting existing observational data;
   - to participate in the continued collection of in situ observational
   data in the region;
   - to work with the local modelling community on comparing observations
   and model simulations to better understand the fidelity of the models in
   capturing mesoscale processes;
   - to write high-impact manuscripts for publication in peer-reviewed
   journals.

*Requirements:*

   - a PhD in physical oceanography
   - experience working with observational datasets, as evidenced by the
   candidate?s publication record
   - willingness to work collaboratively with a group of scientists with
   diverse expertise and experiences in oceanography
   - capacity to lead projects with collaborators, excellent communication
   skills, and demonstrated ability to finish projects on time

 *Additional details:*

More information about IYS can be found at *yearofthesalmon.org
<https://yearofthesalmon.org/>*. To learn more about C-PROOF visit
*cproof.uvic.ca
<http://cproof.uvic.ca/>*.

The University of Victoria is committed to upholding the values of equity,
diversity, and inclusion in our living, learning and work environments. In
pursuit of our values, we seek members who will work respectfully and
constructively with differences and across levels of power. We actively
encourage applications from members of *groups experiencing barriers to
equity
<https://www.uvic.ca/equity/employment-equity/statement/index.php#statement>*.
Read the full equity statement here: *www.uvic.ca/equitystatement
<http://www.uvic.ca/equitystatement>*.

This is a limited term, two-year PDF position paid at a rate of $55,000 CAD
per year plus applicable benefits with an opportunity for renewal given
satisfactory performance and funding availability. A research budget is
also available. We seek a candidate who has completed a PhD within the last
five years (special allowances will be made for career interruptions and
personal circumstances) and who shows evidence of strong quantitative
skills and an understanding of ocean dynamics.


To apply, please send a cover letter, CV and two research publications to
Dr. Jody Klymak by email (*jklymak@uvic.ca <jklymak@uvic.ca>*). Your cover
letter should address your motivation to excel in this project, and the
skills and experience you can bring to the work, and list at least two
academic references. Review of applications will begin on *May 31
2021. *Preferred
start date is November 2021.
