---
layout: post
title: Tenure-track position in chemical oceanography (Rhode Island, Massachusetts)
subtitle: University of Rhode Island
tags: [tenure, USA, chemical oceanography, carbon cycle]
comments: false
---

APPLICATION DEADLINE: The search is open until filled. First consideration
will be given to applications received by February 28, 2021. Second
consideration may be given to applications received by March 14, 2021.
Applications received subsequent to the second consideration date (March
14, 2021) may not be given full consideration.

The Graduate School of Oceanography (GSO) at the University of Rhode Island
invites applications for a tenure-track assistant professor within the
broad specialization of chemical oceanography or marine chemistry,
including research on the human impact on the Earth?s oceans. The position
will be an academic year appointment with an expected start date of
September 1, 2021. We seek applications from researchers who specialize in
chemical oceanography or marine chemistry, particularly with a focus on
carbon cycling. The new hire will enter the vibrant research community at
URI and the many neighboring academic institutions within New England.
Opportunities exist to participate in the active sea-going community of GSO,
the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium, and the Ocean Exploration Trust,
to utilize platforms such as R/V Endeavor, E/V Nautilus and the newly
awarded regional-class research vessel. Physical facilities include the
Marine Science Research Facility, the Rhode Island Nuclear Center, Brown
Center for Computation and Visualization, Rhode Island Genomics &
Sequencing Center, and the NSF coastal ecology assessment innovation and
modeling program for Narragansett Bay. We invite individuals with a strong
commitment to research, excellent teaching and mentorship at the
undergraduate and graduate levels.

The GSO recognizes that oceanographers do not reflect the diverse spectrum
of humanity and that oceanography needs to be strengthened by contributions
from a broad range of perspectives. GSO strives to be leaders in diversity,
equity, and inclusion ? and to change the way the STEM world approaches
these issues with real commitments to representation, social, and
environmental justice. We seek innovation and inspiration for the next
generation of ocean scientists, educators, and explorers. As such, we
particularly welcome candidates from groups that are historically
underrepresented, marginalized, or excluded in our field and/or have
demonstrated leadership towards building an equitable and inclusive
scholarly environment.

**Basic Function**

The successful applicant is expected to develop an externally funded
research program. The candidate will contribute to the teaching of graduate
and undergraduate classes, and contribute to the GSO graduate programs (MO,
MS and PhD) through advising and research committee participation.

**Qualifications**

Required:

1. PhD or equivalent by the time of position hire appointment (September 1,
2021) in oceanography, geochemistry, chemistry, biology, engineering, or
related field.

2. Demonstrated record of scholarly achievement as shown by publications,
presentations at scientific meetings, honors, patents, and/or awards.

3. Demonstrated potential for the development of an independently funded
research program as shown by research statement or previously funded grants
and/or awards.

4. Research strengths and teaching potential that complement existing
programs at GSO and in affiliated departments.

5. Demonstrated proficiency in written communication skills.

6. Demonstrated proficiency in interpersonal and oral communication skills.

7. Demonstrated ability to work with diverse groups/populations.

Preferred:

1. Interest and experience in field, and particularly seagoing, research.

2. Potential for interdisciplinary collaborations.

3. Teaching and mentoring experience.

4. Post PhD research experience.

5. Previous success with research funding.

6. Ability to improve recruitment and retention of graduate students,
particularly students from underrepresented communities.
