---
layout: post
title: Tenure track position in physical oceanography (Irvine, California)
subtitle: University of California, Irvine
tags: [tenure, USA, numerical modelling, observations]
comments: false
---

Assistant Professor of Earth System Science (tenure track): Physical
Oceanography

The Department of Earth System Science (ESS) at The University of
California, Irvine is recruiting an Assistant Professor (tenure track)
anchored in Earth system science with a research focus in Physical
Oceanography. Areas of interest include (though are not limited to)
global ocean circulation, ocean heat transport/storage, sea-level rise
and global coastal impacts, ice-ocean dynamics, or interactions among
oceanic, atmospheric, and terrestrial systems. Diverse scientific
approaches are encouraged, including Earth system modeling, field and
satellite observations, and synthetic data analysis (e.g., assimilation
or machine learning)

We make this appointment with the goal of strengthening the department’s
commitment to research and teaching.  UC Irvine’s ESS department was
founded to explore the global environmental changes that occur on human
time scales. The department has expanded its domain with 26 full-time
faculty from diverse backgrounds ( https://www.ess.uci.edu/ ). The
successful applicant will have: A doctoral degree and research
experience in Physical Oceanography or a related field and a strong
research agenda; a commitment to excellence in teaching and in promoting
diversity and inclusion; and an interest in becoming part of a collegial
and cross-disciplinary department. The position will start July 1, 2022.

The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative
Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants
will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories
covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.UCI is a Hispanic-Serving
Institution (HSI) and an Asian American and Native American Pacific
Islander-Serving Institution (AANAPISI). We seek faculty who are
committed to diversity as well as diverse faculty who will be role
models for our students. All qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability,
age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by
the UC nondiscrimination policy. A recipient of an NSF ADVANCE award for
gender equity, UCI is responsive to the needs of dual career couples,
supports work-life balance through an array of family-friendly policies,
and is dedicated to broadening participation in higher education.
Compensation is competitive, and includes priority access to purchase
on-campus faculty housing at below-market prices. The area offers
numerous recreational and cultural opportunities, and one of the
highest-ranked public school systems in the nation.

If you have questions, please contact facultysearch@ess.uci.edu. Review
of applications will begin January 2, 2022. You can apply here:
https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/JPF07204 
