---
layout: post
title: Graduate student position in chemical oceanography (Newark, Delaware)
subtitle: University of Delaware
tags: [PhD, postdoc, USA, biogeochemistry, surfactants]
comments: false
---

Seeking a highly motivated graduate student (MS or PhD) to join an
NSF-funded collaborative project examining the organic biogeochemistry of
surfactants at the air-sea interface. The student will be advised by Dr.
Andrew Wozniak at the University of Delaware?s, School of Marine Science
and Policy in Lewes, DE with an expected start date of Fall 2021 or Winter
2022. Tuition and a competitive student stipend will be offered for the
3-year duration of the project.

Surfactant organic matter accumulates at the air-sea interface, in the
surface microlayer, influencing both the chemistry of materials available
for exchange and the physical environment (e.g., surface tension,
turbulence) for gas and particle transfers between air and sea. The project
seeks to develop a mechanistic understanding of the links between
biological and photochemical processes and the resulting surfactant and
surface microlayer chemical and physical characteristics. Such an improved
understanding will represent a first step toward improved models of the
air-sea exchange of climate relevant gases and aerosols. The project is a
collaboration with Dr. Amanda Frossard?s group at the University of
Georgia. Two research cruises to sample surface microlayer and subsurface
waters from estuarine, coastal ocean, and open ocean sites will provide the
student with valuable oceanographic field experience. The student will be
trained and actively involved in a subset of seawater organic matter
molecular (colorimetry and UV-vis spectroscopy; Fourier transform ion
cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry; high resolution liquid chromatograph
mass spectrometry), biological (next-generation DNA sequencing), and
physical (dynamic and equilibrium surface tension) characterization, and
multivariate statistical techniques.

Applicants holding bachelor?s or master?s degrees in chemistry,
geosciences, environmental science, marine science, or related fields are
desired. Applicants having experience with chemistry coursework, dissolved
organic matter characterization (including spectroscopic and mass
spectrometric techniques listed above), or DNA sequencing techniques are
desired though all motivated individuals are encouraged to apply.
Individuals from all backgrounds will be considered; those from groups
underrepresented in STEM fields are especially encouraged to apply.

Interested students should email Dr. Andrew Wozniak (awozniak@udel.edu)
with a CV and a brief statement of research experience and interests.
Review of applicants will begin immediately and extend until an appropriate
candidate is identified.
