---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in paleoclimate reconstruction (Pennsylvania)
subtitle: Pennsylvania State University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, assimilation, paleoceanography]
comments: false
---

Postdoctoral Position: Paleoclimate Reconstruction

The Department of Geosciences at The Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, PA, invites applications for a Postdoctoral Scholar
position in Paleoclimate Reconstruction. The successful candidate will join
a group of researchers from Penn State, UC Riverside, U. Arizona, U.
Washington and U. Michigan striving to develop novel insights into Earth's
climate system through the development and application of data assimilation
techniques in deep time, and through quantitative assessment of those
factors that affect the integrity of the climate proxy record, with a
primary focus on the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum event, 56 million
years ago. The project is funded by the Heising-Simons Foundation and is one
component of a larger initiative to advance deep-time climate science
through the development of new modeling approaches. The initial appointment
period will be12 months from the effective date of employment with the
possibility of renewal. Competitive salary and benefits will be provided.
Although the postdoctoral scholar will be based at Penn State, opportunities
exist for extended stays at the partner institutions.

The Department of Geosciences is part of the College of Earth and Mineral
Sciences, and houses internationally recognized research programs spanning a
broad spectrum of Earth Science disciplines. The Department is closely tied
to the Department of Meteorology and Atmospheric Science, the Earth and
Environmental Systems Institute, and the Institute for Computation and Data
Science at Penn State. Penn State is located in central Pennsylvania, with
easy access to major metropolitan areas, and is surrounded by state forests
providing ample opportunities for outdoor recreation.

Applicants must have a Ph.D. in geosciences or a related field by the
effective date of employment. The ideal candidate will have a background in
quantitative climate science, (paleo)oceanography, and/or data assimilation,
including competency in modeling and programming in Matlab, R, Python,
Fortran or another programming language. Applications must be submitted
online and include the following: (i) cover letter describing your
background and interest in the project, (ii)a complete curriculum vitae,
(iii) a diversity statement which shows a commitment to fostering diversity,
equity, inclusive excellence, and belonging and of engagement which creates
an inclusive environment in your department/workplace and (iv) contact
information for three references. Review of applications will begin on April
1, 2021 and continue until the position is filled. Appointment may begin as
early as July 1, 2021. For further information contact Prof. Lee Kump,
mailto:lrk4@psu.edu.

The College of Earth and Mineral Sciences relies on the expertise,
sensitivity and commitment of an inclusive postdoctoral cohort to enhance
diversity, seek equity, and create a welcoming environment within our
community. We are committed to nurturing a learning and working environment
that respects differences in culture, age, gender, race, ethnicity, physical
ability, sexual orientation, and religious affiliation.

Apply online at https://apptrkr.com/2167962

CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more about safety at Penn State, and
to review the Annual Security Report which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please go to
http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/, which will also provide you with detail on
how to request a hard copy of the Annual Security Report.

Penn State is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and is
committed to providing employment opportunities to all qualified applicants
without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran status.
