---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in marine microbial metabolomics (Seattle, Washington)
subtitle: University of Washington
tags: [postdoc, USA, observations, laboratory experiments, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
The Microbial Metabolomics Research Center in the School of Oceanography at
the University of Washington seeks a postdoctoral researcher to conduct
research related to a collaborative NSF project, "Resolving the production
and fate of nitrogenous metabolites in the surface ocean", that aims to
further our understanding of how small molecules flow through marine
microbial communities.

The successful candidate will carry out field studies and laboratory
experiments to test the hypothesis that metabolites are quantitatively and
qualitatively significant forms of carbon and nitrogen fueling microbial
communities. The project has a specific focus on understanding the role of
homarine in microbial communities. Homarine can be the most abundant
metabolite in microbial communities, yet it has no annotated biosynthesis
or catabolism genes. The aims of the research to be carried out include 1)
Quantifying nitrogenous metabolite pools and their net production rates
(particulate and dissolved) in phytoplankton cultures and in marine surface
water communities; 2) Using stable isotope assisted untargeted metabolomics
to characterize the biochemical reactions involved in the degradation of
homarine; 3) Carrying out incubations of stable isotope labeled homarine in
cultures and natural communities to quantitatively evaluate the effect of
homarine on growth, track homarine through metabolic pathways, and
determine the kinetics of homarine uptake; 4) Identify homarine consumers
and biochemical pathways for homarine use in the environment by mining
existing environmental metatranscriptomes for homarine catabolism genes.

The selected candidate will work within a collaborative group of chemists,
molecular biologists, and microbial ecologists and will lead and
participate in lab-based experiments as well as field work aboard regional
(R.V. Rachel Carson) and global (e.g. R.V. Thompson) class research
vessels. They will collaborate with and mentor graduate and undergraduate
students.

For more information see https://apply.interfolio.com/92300
