---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor position in top marine predators (Seattle, Washington)
subtitle: University of Washington
tags: [professor, USA, marine predators]
comments: false
---

Assistant Professor Without Tenure, Top Marine Predators, School of Aquatic
and Fishery Sciences (SAFS)


The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (SAFS, http://fish.washington.edu/) at the University of Washington (UW) has an
opportunity for a *full-time assistant faculty member without tenure* who
conducts *research on marine top predators* such as marine mammals,
seabirds, turtles, and large fishes. This position has a *12-month service
period* and will be supported by three months of salary annually from the
University. The candidate will need to make up the other *nine months of
salary with research grant funding*.


This position will engage in research, teaching, or service that fulfills
our commitment to advancing equity and inclusion and fully engages
audiences from a wide spectrum of backgrounds. Broadly, position
responsibilities are as follows:

-      Research: lead a strong, *extramurally funded research program*

-      Teaching: teach *one undergraduate course annually* in the field of
marine top predators

-     Mentorship: mentor* graduate and undergraduate students*, and
postdoctoral researchers

-      Service: serve on* committees and panels* as needed



There will be opportunities for *collaboration with external partners*
including government agencies, tribal governments/First Nations, and
non-governmental organizations. This position will contribute to the
University's distinctive educational objectives, which include
interdisciplinary perspectives, intercultural understanding, and concern
with social responsibility and the ethical implications of knowledge and
action. The position will come with a start-up package that includes
funding for graduate students.



We welcome the full range of approaches, from field observations and data
analysis to laboratory or modeling.



Qualified candidates will have a *PhD in Biology or other relevant field*
(or foreign equivalent). PhD conferral required by date of appointment.
This position is not eligible for visa sponsorship.



For more details and instructions on how to apply, visit the position
description here:

https://ap.washington.edu/ahr/position-details/?job_id=85846
