---
layout: post
title: Postdoc positions in marine microbial modeling (Stanford, California)
subtitle: Carnegie Institution
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
We seek to hire two Postdoctoral Fellows in the field of microbial ecology
and biogeochemistry. For both, research will use theory and mathematical
modeling as tools to understand how microbial ecological interactions drive
global-scale marine nutrient cycling. One position will focus on aspects of
the marine nitrogen cycle, with research aiming to understand how
nitrogen-cycling microorganisms may provide feedbacks to current changes in
the climate system. Specific project focuses are flexible, and may include,
for example, the ecology and biogeochemical impacts of aerobic and
anaerobic metabolisms in anoxic marine zones or the global-scale ecology of
nitrification in relation to the carbon cycle. A second position will focus
on the diverse communities of microorganisms that consume nonliving organic
matter, with research aiming to understand how microheterotrophic
ecological interactions give rise to observed community composition
patterns and carbon cycling at large scales. Specific project focuses may
include the factors maintaining the diversity of free-living
microheterotrophic functional types or the controls on the spectrum of
organic carbon turnover rates. Fellows will collaboratively design and
conduct cutting-edge research, publish results in peer-reviewed journals,
and present results at scientific conferences.

Applicants should have a Ph.D. or equivalent by the start of the
appointment in the natural sciences and/or mathematics. We seek candidates
with experience in scientific programming and numerical modeling. Though a
background in oceanography, biogeochemistry, ecology, or microbiology is
helpful, all applicants with excellent critical thinking and quantitative
analysis skills, excellent oral and written communication skills, and
demonstrated ability to drive projects forward in a timely manner will be
considered. Additionally, we seek candidates who will work to increase the
representation of historically underrepresented groups in the geosciences.

Fellows will join the Department of Global Ecology (DGE)
<https://dge.carnegiescience.edu/> at the Stanford University campus of the
Carnegie Institution for Science. Fellows will work primarily under the
guidance of Dr. Emily Zakem <https://ezakem.scripts.mit.edu/emilyzakem/>,
with opportunities to collaborate with other researchers at DGE, Stanford
University, and beyond. Founded in 2002, scientists at DGE conduct basic
and applied research into the interactions among the Earth?s ecosystems and
people. The Carnegie Institution has a commitment to scientific excellence
and diversity; we strongly encourage applications from candidates who will
enrich and foster a culturally diverse and inclusive environment.

The start dates for the positions are flexible, and review of applicants
will be ongoing until the positions are filled. Initial appointments are
for one year, with possible renewal. Carnegie offers competitive salary and
comprehensive benefits. In addition, a budget is available to partially
reimburse relocation expenses for successful candidates and their immediate
families. Applications consist of a CV, a one-page statement of research
interests, and contact information for three references submitted through DGE's
application portal <https://jobs.carnegiescience.edu/jobs/> (position #1
<https://jobs.carnegiescience.edu/jobs/postdoctoral-opportunity-microbial-ecological-modeling-of-the-marine-nitrogen-cycle/>
and position #2
<https://jobs.carnegiescience.edu/jobs/postdoctoral-opportunity-ecological-modeling-of-marine-microheterotrophic-communities/>).
Please contact Emily Zakem (ezakem@carnegiescience.
<ezakem@carnegiescience.edu>edu <ezakem@carnegiescience.edu>) with any
questions about the positions.

Carnegie is an equal-opportunity employer and does not discriminate based
on race, religion, color, national origin, sex, gender identity, sexual
orientation, age, veteran status, disability, or any other status protected
by the law.
