---
layout: post
title: Permanent position in sea-ice remote sensing (Greenbelt, Maryland)
subtitle: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
tags: [postdoc, USA, satellite observations, sea ice]
comments: false
---

The Cryospheric Sciences Lab at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) is
looking for a sea ice remote sensing civil servant scientist.  Candidates
with background in any aspect of sea ice remote sensing (observations, such
as passive microwave, optical, or altimetry studies; data-model
integration; interdisciplinary studies such as sea ice-atmosphere-ocean
connections) are encouraged to consider applying.  Applications will be
accepted between *4 June and 8 June 2021* at:
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/602371800?fbclid=IwAR3WOJ0L-NITHkOGNS9z7i8kZxRuzdKUYZ0nqPaSaS0llWD3PtLCWJrmG3k

The mission of the Cryospheric Sciences Lab (https://earth.gsfc.nasa.gov/cryo) is to advance our understanding of
Earth's cryosphere and its relationship to other elements of the global
climate system.  You will join a group of ~30 scientists who design,
collect, use, and integrate remote sensing data products to achieve this
mission.  We use ground-based, airborne, and space-borne data sets to
characterize and understand the ongoing changes in Earth's polar regions.

Applicants must be US citizens, and the position can be filled by either an
early-career scientist at the GS-13 level (equivalent to assistant
professor) or mid-career scientist at the GS-14 level  (equivalent to
associate professor). Applicants are encouraged to set up an account on
usajobs.gov early as the process can be tedious. This position is located
in Greenbelt MD, and relocation support is available.
