---
layout: post
title: Ocean modeller position (Madrid, Spain)
subtitle: Nologin Consulting
tags: [Spain, numerical modelling, operational oceanography]
comments: false
---

Dear all,

 

Nologin Consulting is looking for new talent on ocean modelling. Its operational oceanography department (Nologin Ocean Weather –NOW– Systems) is recruiting expert ocean modellers for temporary full-time positions, associated to the EU’s Copernicus Marine Service (CMEMS) and related R&D projects from H2020 and Horizon Europe programmes, at its Madrid premises.

 

About the Company:

 

Nologin Consulting is a Spanish company established in the year 2000 that actively works with companies around the world to help them protect, store, manage, organize, and maintain their most prized IT assets: information. We help companies and service providers design, implement, and evolve their technological infrastructure as their businesses grow. Together with our global partner network, we share one common goal: to help our customers achieve their desired goals.

In particular, the NOW Systems department is aimed at providing solutions, knowledge, and services for a more sustainable and profitable management of activities in the marine environment. Among other actions, NOW Systems is currently responsible for the transition, launch and control of the operational forecasts of ocean circulation, waves and biogeochemistry of the Iberia Biscay Ireland Monitoring and Forecasting Center (IBI-MFC) at CMEMS.

 

About the job:

 

The candidate will work in Madrid with flexible working arrangements, such as telework and flexible schedule, in the framework of CMEMS and, more specifically, in its regional component IBI, in close collaboration with Mercator Océan International, Puertos del Estado, Météo-France and other partners.

He/she will conduct part of the required research in ocean modelling, aimed at improving regional and coastal model performances in operational applications on European Atlantic shelves.

The expert modeller will help to:

    evolve the CMEMS IBI operational application, including R&D activities related to develop model sensitivity tests with the NEMO-based IBI physical forecast application.
    Compare any new test model solution generated with the present IBI operational product (used as reference solution) to evaluate potential added values of the sensitivity tests. 
    Qualify the resulting model outputs. For this validation activities, the use of Earth Observations and in-situ observational ocean data sources arises as a major issue. The use of the present IBI-MFC validation tool (i.e., NARVAL tool) will be required, and the selected candidate will collaborate with the IBI-MFC Product Quality Team.   
    Participate in the process of transitioning into operations any new model configuration, if the benefit of the R&D model activity is demonstrated, providing technical support to the IBI-MFC operational Team to ease future releases of the IBI-MFC ocean forecast service. 
    Exchange data and experience with other groups and related project.
    Produce reports on the model developments and experiments carried out, valorising the scientific results obtained (by participating in the drafting of scientific papers, and by presenting results in scientific and technical workshops).

 

Qualifications, experience, and assets to have:

 

The ideal candidate has a relevant degree (PhD positively valued) in physics/meteorology/oceanography or other closely related discipline (i.e., coastal or maritime engineering) with experience in ocean modeling (ideally with the NEMO model) and good programming skills (in particular in languages such as Fortran, Python and Linux shell scripting).

He/she is a rigorous, creative team worker wishing to contribute with ideas to an ambitious international framework of research projects related to pan-European operational oceanographic services.

He/she has good English language skills. His/her fluency in Spanish is also valued. 

Finally, he/she has a strong interest in performing R&D activities, closely linked to the evolution of operational forecast services. He/she will have the opportunity to work in a highly multidisciplinary environment, in close collaboration not only with other Nologin/NOW Systems staff from the IBI-MFC Team but also with other ocean modellers and data assimilation researchers.

The successful candidate will be recruited by Nologin Consulting S.L. following its recruitment principles. Remuneration commensurate with qualifications and experience.

Interested candidates are invited to send cover letter and C.V. by mail to cv@nologin.es, specifying in the subject line: “IBI – NOW Systems position”. Closing date is June 15th, 2021.

 

Kind regards.
