---
layout: post
title: PhD positions on the ocean's role in climate change (Riverside, California)
subtitle: University of California Riverside
tags: [PhD, USA, numerical modelling, observations, climate change]
comments: false
---

1-2 PhD positions in the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences at
University of California Riverside are available starting in Fall 2022. The
potential candidate(s) will have the opportunity to work on multiple
projects to explore the role of the ocean in climate change and climate
variability such as Southern Ocean heat uptake and climate impacts of the
Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation. Applicants with a background
in ocean science, atmospheric science, geology, physics, mechanical
engineering, or other related fields are welcome to apply. Previous
programming skills using Fortran, NCL, Matlab and/or Python are preferred
but not required. The PhD candidate(s) will work directly with Dr. Wei Liu.
For interested applicants, please send your CV, research statement, and
contact information for three references to

Dr. Liu (wei.liu@ucr.edu) by December 3rd, 2021.

The successful candidate will receive a competitive offer package including
tuition waiver, monthly stipends and insurance benefits.

The University of California is an Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action
Employer with a strong institutional commitment to the achievement of
excellence and diversity among its faculty and staff. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, age, disability, protected veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected by law.

UCR is a world-class research university with an exceptionally diverse
undergraduate student body. Its mission is explicitly linked to providing
routes to educational success for underrepresented and first-generation
college students. A commitment to this mission is a preferred qualification.
