---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor position in climate/ocean dynamics (Busan, South Korea)
subtitle: Pusan National University
tags: [tenure, South Korea, numerical modelling, observations]
comments: false
---
The IBS Center for Climate Physics (ICCP) (http://ibsclimate.org) at Pusan National University (PNU),
Busan, South Korea invites applications for a full-time tenure track Assistant or Associate Professor
position in “Climate/Ocean Dynamics”. This faculty position is envisioned to support the ICCP’s
research portfolio of interdisciplinary climate science with a special emphasis on physical
oceanography and ocean modelling.

We seek a faculty colleague who will join PNU preferably on March1st, 2022 to teach and mentor
graduate students in the Climate Systems program and develop and maintain an internationally
outstanding research program with a research focus that is not yet well represented in ICCP. ICCP will
provide generous research funds to the successful candidate to establish a research team.
We welcome applications from individuals who enjoy building collaborations and who will actively
work to attract new research fellows and students from diverse intellectual backgrounds.
The IBS Center for Climate Physics is an internationally recognized leader in integrated Earth system
science with exceptional supercomputing resources dedicated to cutting-edge research in the fields of climate dynamics, meteorology and oceanography (https://ibsclimate.org/research/facilities/aleph-
supercomputer). ICCP’s mission is to enhance the understanding of natural climate variability and man-
made climate change, and to improve the ability to predict climate impacts on the hydrological cycle, ice-sheets, sea level, and regional processes.

The successful candidate will be co-affiliated with the Department of Climate System at PNU
(https://climatesystem.pusan.ac.kr/climate/49741/subview.do) and is expected to teach 6 credits per
semester (Must teach 3 credits in English).

We are looking for an individual:
• with a PhD in oceanography, climate dynamics or related fields
• with an exceptionally strong scholarly potential
• with an excellent record of innovative peer-reviewed publications in Climate/Ocean Dynamics
• with experience in climate/ocean modeling or theoretical oceanography
• who establishes an innovative research program in Climate/Ocean Dynamics
• who is comfortable working in an international and diverse research environment
• who is proficient in spoken and written English
• who has at least 2 years research experience as a postdoc in the required field.

To apply, please send the following files in pdf or excel format to hahadaye@pusan.ac.kr

PDF 1 (title: CV and Research plan_your name.pdf)
• a cover letter indicating the position title (in English)
• a Curriculum Vitae with Full Publication List (in English) and the contacts information of three
references
• an expression of research and teaching interests (in English)
• a 3-page proposal describing future research plans within ICCP (in English)

EXCEL 2 (title: publicationlist_your name.xls) At least two first authored original papers published
between September 2018-September 2021 in SCIE or SSCI journals with JCR 2019 Impact Factor 3
or higher
(100% for a sole author, 70% for two authors, 50% for three authors, 30% for four or more authors,
70% regardless of the numbers of authors if applicants are a lead author). Weight SCIE 2.5, SSCI 4.5
• publication list form, download from http://ppes.pusan.ac.kr – Foreigners Only – IBS Forms –
Publication List Form(Sep. 2018 to Sep. 2021)

PDF 3 (title: certificates_your name.pdf)
• graduate transcripts (Bachelor, Master and PhD) in English (If your university (graduate
school) does not issue a transcript, you must submit a proof of the date of admission, actual
study period, class method (full time or not), etc certification from the university.
• evidence of past employments in English
• evidence of past research awards in English

PDF 4 (title: PhDthesis_yourname.pdf)
• PhD thesis (in English)

PDF 5 (title: Representative papersNo1 & No2_yourname.pdf)
• Two representative papers published within last three years (2018.9.1.-Application deadline)
(in English). Choose two representative papers among the publication list in EXCEL 2

PDF 6 (title: Reference_yourname.pdf)
• One (1) reference letter should be directly sent from a professor-level scientist to
hahadaye@pusan.ac.kr (in English)

PDF 7 (title: Letter of Consent_yourname.pdf)
• Letter of Consent form, download from http://ppes.pusan.ac.kr – Foreigners Only – IBS
Forms –Letter of Consent Form
For the forms please visit: http://ppes.pusan.ac.kr/- Foreigners Only – ‘IBS Forms’

For any further questions please contact Ms. Jenny Choi, IBS Center for Climate Physics, Email:
hahadaye@pusan.ac.kr.

Application deadline: September 30th, 2021, 18:00 pm (Korean Standard Time)
