---
layout: post
title: Summer student fellowship in ocean sciences and engineering (Woods Hole, Massachusetts)
subtitle: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
tags: [fellowship, USA, observations, numerical modelling, engineering]
comments: false
---

**Summer Student Fellowship (REU) in Ocean Sciences and Engineering**

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, MA

A research project is at the heart of the Summer Student Fellowship at
the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI). Fellows have the
opportunity to conduct research with access to more than two hundred
practicing scientists and engineers and the facilities of a major
oceanographic institution. Project topics span the vast spectrum of
research in ocean sciences and engineering conducted in WHOI's science
departments and the Woods Hole Coastal and Marine Science Center of the
U.S. Geological Survey.

Fellowship recipients participate in seminars, professional development,
social activities, and a hands-on, one-day, ocean sampling cruise on
board the R/V Tioga focusing on data collection and sampling methods
with advanced oceanographic technology and instruments.

Fellows have many occasions to interact with current MIT-WHOI Joint
Program graduate students in their research groups, during Q&A sessions
and the Ethics in Science Workshop, and in a near-peer mentoring program.

The fellowship provides a stipend of $650/week, as well as housing and a
travel allowance. The program duration is a minimum of 10 weeks and a
maximum of 12 weeks. The start and end dates are flexible - students
arrive between the end of May to mid-June.

Students from groups underrepresented in ocean science and engineering
are encouraged to apply.

Requirements: Undergraduate STEM majors who will have completed their
junior year are eligible.

Program information, application and potential projects for summer 2021:
www.whoi.edu/summerfellow

https://www.whoi.edu/what-we-do/educate/undergraduate-programs/summer-student-fellowship/

Questions? Please contact education@whoi.edu

*Apply now! Deadline February 5, 2021.*
