---
layout: post
title: Senior researcher position in climate dynamics (Bergen, Norway)
subtitle: Bjerknes Center for Climate Research, NORCE
tags: [Norway, numerical modelling, observations, global circulation]
comments: false
---

NORCE has an open 3-year fixed term Senior Researcher position (with possibility for permanency) in the field of climate dynamics. NORCE Climate is one of four partners of the Bjerknes Center for Climate Research in Bergen, Norway (https://bjerknes.uib.no/en). The position is available within the recently funded H2020 project PolarRES: Polar Regions in the Earth System led by Dr. Priscilla A. Mooney, NORCE Climate.

 

PolarRES is an exciting new research project involving 21 organisations from 15 different countries. This position will initially focus on Global Circulation Storylines and their implications for polar changes and teleconnections. This position will initially focus on “Circulation Storylines and their implications for polar changes and teleconnections” and “Impact of better resolved processes on Polar-lower latitude linkages”. The research position is expected to provide new insights into the response of the Arctic and Antarctic to, and their influence on, projected changes in the global circulation.

 

This is an exciting and challenging area of science and offers the opportunity to connect with scientists across multiple disciplines leading to improved efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change in the polar regions. We are looking for a motivated, curiosity-driven person, preferably with experience in atmosphere and ocean dynamics.

 

Application deadline: 12 April 2021

 

For further details and information on how to apply, click on this link: 

https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/202934/senior-researcher-in-climate-dynamics

 

Best regards,

Priscilla
