---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in small-scale air-sea interactions (Israel)
subtitle: Agricultural Research Organization (Volcani Center)
tags: [postdoc, Israel, numerical modelling, air-sea interactions, Mediterranean Sea]
comments: false
---

Two-year PostDoc position in small-scale air-sea interactions

Location: Agricultural Research Organization (Volcani Center), Israel

Starting date: as soon as possible

 

Description:

We have an open position for a Postdoctoral researcher in small-scale air-sea interactions. Possible projects include (a) Studying the effects of sub-km variability on the water mass-balance at the Sea-of-Galilee (b) Studying the impact of eddies on the storm track in the Mediterranean Sea. The successful candidate will conduct numerical simulations using a regional coupled atmosphere-ocean model and analyze the results.

Qualification/experience:

The ideal candidate will have: (a) A background in atmospheric research, oceanography, computer sciences, or physics. (b) The capability of working in a Linux and HPC environment. (c) Experience in running general circulation models such as the WRF or MITgcm. (d) The desire to present the results in international conferences and summarize them in journal publications.

Salary and conditions:

The position is offered for two years with a possible extension for an additional year. The estimated annual salary will be 100K-120K NIS (about 30K$-36K$).

Application:

For full consideration, please send a cover letter and CV by email before May 1, 2021. However, applications will be considered until the position is filled.

 

For more information or applying for the position, please contact Udi Strobach at udist@volcani.agri.gov.il.
