---
layout: post
title: Research scientist position within marine biogeochemical/ecosystem/physical modelling (Oslo, Norway)
subtitle: Norwegian Institute for Water Research (NIVA)
tags: [postdoc, Norway, numerical modelling, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---

NIVA's Oceanography section (niva.no/en/research/oceanography
<http://www.niva.no/en/research/oceanography>) invites applications for a
Research Scientist position within marine biogeochemical/ecosystem/physical
modelling. We seek applications from researchers to join our group to use
marine modelling to better understand how the coastal and open oceans
interact and respond to natural and anthropogenic stressors and drivers.
The Oceanography section is composed of 25 research scientists and
engineers who employ modelling, observational, and experimental approaches
to provide a comprehensive approach for addressing research questions
related to oceanography and marine biogeochemistry. The successful
candidate will be expected to develop model code, conduct simulations, and
perform analysis of results, seek external funding to develop their own
research portfolio, as well as contribute to existing Norwegian- and
European-funded projects that use models to assess the impacts of climate
change in the open ocean as well as fjord and coastal areas. We also expect
that the successful candidate will contribute to peer-reviewed publications
and enhance collaborations within our diverse section  and with other
research sections at NIVA including, but not limited to, Marine Biology,
Catchment Biogeochemistry, and Water and Society.

 Location for the position will be in one of NIVA?s offices in Bergen,
Oslo, or Grimstad. Workplace can be further discussed with the candidates.
Competences:
PhD degree with a proven research record within marine biogeochemical,
ecosystem, and/or physical modelling
Qualifications and Experience:

   - -Postdoc experience is desirable but not required
   - -Strong programming and data analytic skills
   - -Experience with programming in Python (xarray, dask, pandas),
   Fortran, and/or R is a requirement; experience with Matlab, GIS, and
   web-based database tools is desirable
   - -Familiarity with marine biogeochemical/ecosystem/physical models
   (e.g., ERSEM, ROMS, NEMO, FVCOM, Ecopath, Ecosim)
   - -Good track record with respect to peer-reviewed publications
   - -Proficiency in oral and written English. Knowledge of Norwegian is
   advantageous but not a prerequisite

Personal qualities:

We are looking for an enthusiastic, goal-oriented candidate with good
communication skills, who wishes to work in a broad, interdisciplinary and
international research group with colleagues from a range of backgrounds.
NIVA seeks a flexible candidate with the ability to work on a variety of
tasks.

NIVA?s work environment is distinguished by respect and equality. We treat
each other equally and do not discriminate on the basis of gender, age,
functional ability, religion, ethnic and cultural background or any other
defining aspect of an individual.
NIVA offers:

   - Exciting and stimulating tasks in a leading national water research
   institute.
   - An opportunity for professional and personal development.
   - A multicultural, social and creative work environment, and an
   enthusiastic team of researchers and developers.
   - Competitive conditions and salaries, pension plans and insurance
   benefits.

Apply here by November 7, 2021: https://www.niva.no/en/vacancies
