---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor position in climate science (Berkeley, California)
subtitle: University of California, Berkeley
tags: [professor, USA, numerical modelling, observations]
comments: false
---
**Assistant Professor - Department of Earth & Planetary Science -
College of Letters & Science**

The Department of Earth and Planetary Science at the University of
California, Berkeley invites applications for an Assistant Professor
Faculty position. We seek candidates from all areas of earth and
planetary science, with an emphasis on either (1) earth and/or
planetary surface and sedimentary processes in the present or past;
(2) climate science including oceans, the cryosphere, and atmosphere
on all time scales. Candidates whose research falls into one of these
broad areas or their disciplinary interfaces are especially encouraged
to apply. All candidates, regardless of the field in earth and
planetary science, will be considered.

The Department is dedicated to advancing equity and accessibility for
all who are or wish to be, members of our community. The Department is
committed to addressing the family needs of faculty, including dual
career couples and single parents. We are also interested in
candidates who have had non-traditional career paths or who have taken
time off for family reasons (e.g., caring for children, the disabled,
or the elderly), or who have achieved excellence in careers outside
academia (e.g., in professional or industry service).

For information about potential relocation to Berkeley, or career
needs of accompanying partners and spouses, please visit:

https://urldefense.com/v3/__http://ofew.berkeley.edu/new-faculty__;!!KGKeukY!hCvw3GvJdXHYuJGAxc8QgrH_kLEDO5Qf8CuwEmLWUT5PzEQv4qkX2jHM4DvYnAru1To$

To apply, visit <https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://apptrkr.com/2435458__;!!KGKeukY!hCvw3GvJdXHYuJGAxc8QgrH_kLEDO5Qf8CuwEmLWUT5PzEQv4qkX2jHM4DvYxZm6CRo$ >

Deadline Thursday Oct 14, 2021
