---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in regional ocean modelling (Princeton, New Jersey)
subtitle: Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL), Princeton University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, regional ocean]
comments: false
---
The Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Program, in association with NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL), seeks a postdoctoral or more senior researcher to work in the area of regional ocean model development.

This work involves further developing the regional capabilities of the MOM6 numerical ocean model, in both a forced ocean and a fully coupled-to-atmosphere context. The candidate would focus on the development of numerical methods and algorithms in the regional version of MOM6, and would participate in the development of new regional applications to be used to address questions in predictability, climate and Earth system model down-scaling, ecosystem science and fisheries.

The ideal candidate has a strong background in one or more areas among dynamical oceanography, dynamical meteorology, applied mathematics, or numerical methods. Experience with scientific software development will be advantageous in this research.

Candidates must have a Ph.D. in either oceanography, meteorology, applied mathematics, physics, or a related field. Initial appointment is for one year with the possibility of renewal subject to satisfactory performance and available funding.

Complete applications, including a CV with a list of publications, a statement of research interests (no more than 2 pages including references), and contact information of 3 references should be submitted by May 15, 2021, 11:59 p.m. EST for full consideration. Princeton is interested in candidates who, through their research, will contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Applicants should apply online to https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=19521.

For more information about the research project and application process, please contact Robert Hallberg (robert.hallberg@noaa.gov), Charlie Stock (charles.stock@noaa.gov), or Alistair Adcroft (aadcroft@princeton.edu).

This position is subject to the University's background check policy. Princeton University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
