---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in observational physical oceanography in the Southern Ocean (Southampton, UK)
subtitle: University of Southampton
tags: [postdoc, UK, observations, Antarctic sea ice, Southern Ocean]
comments: false
---
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Physical Oceanography

Location:  National Oceanography Centre Southampton

Salary:   31,406 to 38,587 per annum

Full Time Fixed Term for 24 months

Closing Date:  Monday 04 April 2022

Interview Date:   To be confirmed

Reference:  1735322HN

Ocean and Earth Science at the National Oceanography Centre, Southampton
(NOCS) is seeking to recruit a Research Fellow in Physical Oceanography to
undertake research on the ocean dynamics regulating Antarctic Sea ice, and
on the impacts of sea ice on Southern Ocean circulation. The role will
focus on the analysis of a range of novel measurements of
small-to-mesoscale processes collected in the seasonally ice-covered
Weddell Sea within the Southern Ocean Carbon and Heat Impact on Climate
(SO-CHIC)? and ?Drivers and Effects of Fluctuations in Sea Ice in the
Antarctic (DEFIANT)? consortia. These observations will be performed via a
range of field campaigns, including the deployment of autonomous systems
(such as ice-tethered profilers, microstructure-equipped gliders, and a
long-range autonomous underwater vehicle) near and under sea ice, the
installation of a cluster of moorings in an open-ocean polynya formation
area, and a dedicated research cruise to the Weddell Sea.

The successful applicant will work as part of a team examining the climatic
mechanisms and physical processes governing Antarctic Sea ice and its
influence on the Southern Ocean circulation. The SO-CHIC and DEFIANT
programmes involve an active sea-going oceanographic group, experts in
remote sensing, numerical sea ice-ocean modellers and climate dynamicists,
and are strongly motivated by the dramatic changes in Antarctic Sea ice
(including the re-emergence of the Weddell Polynya) that have occurred in
recent years. The NOCS team will work closely with scientists at project
partner institutions in the UK (e.g., British Antarctic Survey), other
European countries (e.g., Sorbonne University and Gothenburg University)
and the USA (e.g., Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution).

Applicants should have a PhD or equivalent in physical oceanography (or a
related field) with experience in the interpretation of oceanographic
observations.  A good knowledge of ocean dynamics would be beneficial.
Strong quantitative and communication skills, and the ability to conduct
innovative research leading to high-impact publications in international
refereed journals are essential.

*Applications for Research Fellow positions will be considered from
candidates who are working towards or nearing completion of a relevant PhD
qualification. The title of Research Fellow will be applied upon successful
completion of the PhD. Prior to the qualification being awarded the title
of Senior Research Assistant will be given.*

The post is offered on a full-time, fixed term basis for 2 years.

Informal enquiries can be made to Prof. Alberto Naveira Garabato on 023
8059 2680 or e-mail acng@soton.ac.uk.

*Application Procedure*

You should submit your completed online application form at
https://jobs.soton.ac.uk. The application deadline will be midnight on the
closing date stated above. If you need any assistance, please call Hannah
Nash (HR Recruitment Team) on +44 (0) 23 8059 4043 or email
recruitment@soton.ac.uk  Please quote reference 1735322HN on all
correspondence.

Further details: https://jobs.soton.ac.uk/Vacancy.aspx?ref=1735322HN
