---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in coastal oceanography (St John's, Canada)
subtitle: Fisheries and Oceans Canada
tags: [postdoc, Canada, numerical modelling, coastal ocean, fisheries]
comments: false
---
Fisheries and Oceans Canada is looking to fill a post-doctoral position
for conducting research activities in coastal oceanography at the unit
of St John's (Newfoundland, Canada).  The position is part of a
multi-disciplinary project in sustainable aquaculture started in April
2021.

The main objective for the position is to develop an ecological carrying
capacity model, a necessary step to understand the present-day
ecosystem. The model will also serve as a base for further studies to
make projections on varying future climate scenarios. The ecological
carrying capacity model will encompasses hydrodynamics, biogeochemical
processes and bivalve growth (in collaboration with other groups and
experts). The model will be applied by the candidate to evaluate the
effects of mussels production on the environment and vice-versa.

We are seeking an enthusiastic candidate with experience in physical
oceanography and numerical modelling, willing to collaborate with a
diverse group of people. Experience with FVCOM (Finite Volume Community
Ocean Model) and/or ROMS (Regional Ocean Modeling System) models are an
asset, as well as experience with DEB (Dynamic Energy Budget) modeling.
Other models may be considered depending on the candidate experience.

Experience in oceanographic instrumentation and large data set analysis,
experience in chemical and biological oceanography, and bivalve
aquaculture are an asset (but not essential).

The successful candidate will have to apply to the Postdoctoral Research
Program for the Government of Canada
(https://eur03.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fnrcan-rncan.hiringplatform.ca%2F6355-postdoctoral-research-program-prp%2F20673-application-form%2Fen&amp;data=05%7C01%7CMet-jobs%40lists.reading.ac.uk%7Cdf5f8f87bec54da912b608da61057ac6%7C4ffa3bc4ecfc48c09080f5e43ff90e5f%7C0%7C0%7C637928973411000195%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&amp;sdata=h4vyDDMFpfSjPkSWfrL1HKYmYeTdIQ9TpnDYqUgkIRg%3D&amp;reserved=0)
and be accepted in order to fill the position.

The duration of the fellowship is for 1.5 years and salary is CA$ 59,000
(annual, as per Government of Canada Collective agreements).

Contact: Daria Gallardi (daria.gallardi@dfo-mpo.gc.ca)
