---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor position on the changing ocean (Seattle, Washington)
subtitle: University of Washington
tags: [tenure, USA, numerical modelling, observations, climate change]
comments: false
---
The University of Washington School of Oceanography seeks applications for a full time, 9-month faculty position at the level of tenure-track Assistant Professor in the broad theme of the Changing Ocean. The anticipated start date of the position is September 16, 2022. Review of applications will begin on March 15, 2022. Applications will be considered until the position is filled. Application link: https://apply.interfolio.com/101378

Oceans and coastlines change over diurnal-to-million-year timescales and across the full range of spatial scales. Understanding linkages between the past, present, and future states of the oceans relies on knowledge of underlying mechanisms of natural and human-forced ocean and ecosystem change. Our ability to detect and predict these changes hinges on our understanding of the links between the physics, geology, chemistry, and biology of the ocean. The successful applicant will be expected to expand the school?s research and teaching efforts related to ocean change. Research and teaching could fall within a wide range of coastal or open ocean topics, including but not limited to biogeochemistry, ecology, ocean climate interaction, paleoceanography, geobiology or sedimentology. We welcome the full range of approaches in applied and/or basic science, from field observations and data analysis to laboratory or numerical simulations and theoretical modeling.

Our academic unit is highly multidisciplinary and promotes a collegial culture with broad interdisciplinary research ties throughout the School and across the UW campus. UW faculty are expected to engage in research, teaching, and service. The successful candidate for this position will develop new or expanded areas of expertise within the School of Oceanography and collaborate with colleagues within the School and College of the Environment, and across the University. The candidate will be expected to contribute to the teaching mission of the School, including teaching across interdisciplinary topics, at the graduate and undergraduate levels, and mentoring of graduate students. In all aspects of this position, the candidate will be expected to promote a diverse, inclusive, and equitable environment for students, faculty, staff, and the public.

**Application Instructions**

Applicants are asked to describe plans for innovative and high-quality research, teaching, and mentoring programs. We are committed to a holistic review of applicants, recognizing that applicants have varying life circumstances, pandemic experiences, and access to resources. Broad categories to be considered during the reviewing process include an applicant?s research creativity and accomplishments, research vision, teaching, mentoring, commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), potential to succeed at the UW, and leadership capabilities. Please see the full advertisement for more details:

https://www.ocean.washington.edu/story/Assistant_Professor_The_Changing_Ocean

Questions regarding the application process or any potential disability accommodations during the application and interview process can be directed to oceanjob@uw.edu  or the Search Committee Chair: Prof. Andrea Ogston, ogston@uw.edu
