---
layout: post
title: PhD position in remote sensing of ocean color (Wimereux, France)
subtitle: Laboratory of Oceanology and Geosciences (LOG)
tags: [PhD, France, satellite observations, ocean color, coastal ocean]
comments: false
---

A 3-year PhD fellowship is proposed by the Laboratory of Oceanology and
Geosciences LOG (Wimereux, France) on the validation of ocean color
products from OLCI/S3 and COCTS/CZI/HY-1C and their potential to monitor
the dynamic and the quality of the European and Chinese coastal waters.

The monitoring of the coastal water quality at large spatial and
temporal scales is mandatory in the frame of the EU “Marine Strategy”
directive. One tool to do that is remote sensing. Remote sensing has the
advantage to provide a synoptic view of the oceans. In the goal of
defining the quality of the coastal waters, the study of the spatial and
temporal variation of the ocean color is a powerful tool that provides
information about the chlorophyll-a concentration, the total suspended
matter concentration and the absorption and back-scattering properties
of the seawater. The Chinese and European space agencies have launched
dedicated satellites to study the ocean color. However, before being
able to use these satellites images to monitor the coastal waters, it is
necessary to validate the different processing steps of those images
using in-situ measurements. Two steps are necessary: 1) Atmospheric
correction, step that removes the influence of the atmosphere on the
signal measured by the satellite; 2) Bio-optical and biogeochemical
algorithms, estimating information on the chlorophyll-a, total suspended
matter and bio-optical properties of seawater. An in-situ dataset of
bio-optical and biogeochemical parameters in the European and Chinese
coastal waters will be developed to validate these two steps and will
also be used to develop regional algorithms in our regions of interest.
This will allow us to select the best algorithm for those areas. Those
best algorithms will be used to process the total archive of the
European and Chinese satellite images in order to study the temporal
variations of the European and Chinese coastal seawater quality.

This fellowship is part of a project funded by the European Space Agency
in the frame of the Dragon-5 program. The candidate will collaborate
with Dr. Bing Han and his team at the National Ocean Technology Center
(NOTC; Hangzhou, China) and will be able to visit NOTC for short-term
missions.

Qualifications: Master degree in remote sensing or oceanography or
environmental sciences

Application closure date: June 1st 2022

Position Length: 3-year fellowship from October 2022

Location: The candidate will be located at LOG, 32 avenue Foch, 62930
Wimereux, France

Conditions to apply: The applicant must hold the nationality of a
Member/participating states or of the European Space Agency (Austria,
Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom)

Applicants must submit:

- A detailed CV, including the e-mail and phone number for three references
- A short cover letter explaining the applicant’s experience related to
the position and motivation

For questions and application’s submission, please contact:
Cédric Jamet: cedric.jamet@univ-littoral.fr
