---
layout: post
title: Visiting assistant professor position in oceanography (Mystic, Connecticut)
subtitle: Williams-Mystic Coastal and Ocean Studies Program
tags: [teaching, USA, physical oceanography, biogeochemsitry]
comments: false
---
The Williams-Mystic Coastal and Ocean Studies Program located in Mystic,
Connecticut invites applications for a one-year, full-time visiting
assistant professor to teach oceanography. We seek a scientist and educator
with collaborative and interdisciplinary interests who has expertise in
chemical, physical, or geological oceanographic processes. In addition to
teaching, you will be asked to supervise independent student research and
participate in up to three, multi-day field seminars in each of two
semesters for a total of six field seminars in the year. Field seminar
locations include an offshore sailing cruise and land-based excursions to
the Pacific, Atlantic, and/or the Gulf of Mexico. On both the field
seminars and in Mystic you will teach with faculty from four other academic
disciplines so that students cultivate an interdisciplinary understanding
of issues that face our coasts and oceans. Our coastal campus includes a
state-of-the-art marine science education center and is located near many
marine ecosystems that we can access with a variety of vessels.

Williams-Mystic (mystic.williams.edu) is a selective off-campus program of
Williams College located on the coastal campus at Mystic Seaport Museum,
with approximately 20 students each semester from many different colleges.
The mission of Williams-Mystic is to empower global, creative citizens
while cultivating an enduring relationship with the sea. We create an
open-minded, interdisciplinary academic community through experiential
learning at our coastal campus at Mystic Seaport Museum, along the coasts
of America, and on the ocean. Students of all majors study the history,
literature, policy, and science of the ocean, focusing on the environment
and sustainability.

*Qualifications*
Degree requirements: Ph.D. candidate, Ph.D., or another relevant terminal
degree. The position will start on July 1, 2022.

*Application Instructions*
Please submit a letter of interest and CV with references listed. All
materials must be received by February 25, 2022. Applicants must apply
through Interfolio.

We welcome applications from members of groups traditionally
underrepresented in the field and ask you to state in your letter of
interest how you will enhance the diversity of offerings and educational
experiences in the program if hired.

Point of Contact is the Williams-Mystic Executive Director, Tom Van Winkle,
Ph.D., tsv1@williams.edu, 860-572-5359.

All offers of employment are contingent upon the completion of a background
check. Further information is available here:
http://dean-faculty.williams.edu/prospective-faculty/background-check-policy/
.

*Position begins:* July 1, 2022

*Application deadline:* 11:59 pm ET on February 25, 2022

*Apply online:* http://apply.interfolio.com/102037

Full posting:
https://employment.williams.edu/faculty-positions/williams-mystic-coastal-and-ocean-studies-program/
