---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in tipping points of the climate system (De Bilt, Netherlands)
subtitle: The Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute
tags: [postdoc, Netherlands, numerical modelling, tipping points, optimESM, climate change]
comments: false
---
Scientist Tipping Points (KNMI 2022-70)

Job title

As a scientist in the field of climate physics and dynamics you will
contribute to the physical understanding of climate change based on
mathematical modelling of physical processes and in particular on the
physical understanding of abrupt changes in the physical system
associated with threshold behavior of its subsystems that can act as
tipping elements when certain thresholds are exceeded and subsystems
possessing multiple equilibria given a certain forcing/climate
background state can be pushed to a new equilibrium. You will be based
at De Bilt.

The project

The EU-funded international OptiMESM project (Optimal High Resolution
Earth System Models for Exploring Future Climate Changes) will develop
a novel generation of Earth system models (ESMs), combining high
resolution with an unprecedented representation of key physical and
biogeochemical processes. These models will be used to deliver
cutting-edge and policy-relevant knowledge around the consequences of
reaching or exceeding different levels of global warming, including
the risk of rapid change in key Earth system phenomena and the
regional impacts arising both from the level of global warming and the
occurrence of abrupt changes. OptimESM will realise these goals by
bringing together four ESM groups with Integrated Assessment Modelling
teams, as well as experts in model evaluation, Earth system processes,
machine learning, climate impacts and science communication.
OptimESM will further develop new policy-relevant emission and land
use scenarios, including ones that realise the Paris Agreement, and
others that temporarily or permanently overshoot the Paris targets.
Using these scenarios, OptimESM will deliver long-term projections
that will increase our understanding of the risk for triggering
potential tipping points in phenomena such as; ice sheets, sea ice,
ocean circulation, marine ecosystems, permafrost, and terrestrial
ecosystems. OptimESM will further our understanding of the processes
controlling such tipping points, attribute the risk of exceeding
various tipping points to the level of global warming, and develop a
range of techniques to forewarn the occurrence of tipping points in
the real world.

In this project KNMI will work on improving the EC-Earth model,
executing model runs, analyzing tipping points and abrupt climate
changes, and regional weather extremes.


What will you be doing?

The main goal of our work is contributing to the development of an
'Abrupt change risk-catalogue', documenting the likelihood of abrupt
change in the phenomena studied as a function of emission scenario,
global mean warming, rate of warming and the duration of warming above
a given target. Such a register will help inform mitigation policies
aimed at identifying 'safe' future pathways to avoid (or reduce the
risk of) abrupt change. In addition to the risk register we will also
develop techniques aimed at early detection of abrupt change,
extending this body of work to consider the onset of abrupt change
against the background of a changing climate. This work will feed into
broader, international efforts aimed at developing real-world, early
warning observing systems of abrupt change.

You will work together with project leader Prof. Sybren Drijfhout on
the detection and analysis of regime shifts, abrupt climate change,
tipping points and early warning signals in future climate change
simulations (including overshoot scenarios in terms of global
warming), performed by state-of-the-art earth system models by
applying (and possibly improving) an existing search and detection
program together with our Italian partner. Together with the
University of Exeter you will compare and interpret results using
analytical models and results from dynamical systems theory. In
addition, you will work with partners from the National Oceanography
Centre in Southampton on an assessment of controlling processes and
feedback analysis of abrupt changes in sea-ice and ocean circulation.

You will join the enthusiastic team working on EC-Earth and
understanding global climate change. You will be part of the global
modelling cluster of the RDWK department, and contribute to model
evaluation and improvement of the European EC-Earth climate model.

Who you are

You are an enthusiastic scientist with a background in mathematics,
meteorology, or climate science, who likes to work in an
international, and multi-disciplinary environment, while also having
the perseverance to overcome challenges from technical, scientific and
communicative nature.

Specifically:
• you have a completed PhD in mathematics, physics, meteorology,
physical oceanography or climate science;
• you have affinity with developing theoretical mathematical models,
programming and analysis of large datasets;
• you are experienced in programming in Python (and Fortran), and
preferably Linux applied for the development of new source code;
• it would be a pro if you have (some) knowledge of dynamical systems
theory and some experience in complex system studies/complexity
science;
• you are fluent in English (spoken and written) and preferably have a
basic understanding of the Dutch language.

In addition to the requirements, you recognize yourself in the
following characteristics: you are steadfast and adhere to scientific
integrity. You can think in new ways to generate new solutions. You
regularly exchange knowledge, information and ideas with others and
actively seek feedback on your own ideas. Furthermore, you also have a
results-oriented attitude and the skills to manage your work in a
timely manner and make progress in the project

Terms of employment:

Minimum salary € 3503

Maximum salary € 5343

Contract 2 jaar

Other conditions of employement

In addition to your salary, you will receive an Individual Budget
(IKB). The IKB consists of funds (16.37% of your gross annual salary)
and time. With the IKB, you make choices that are right for you, and
you can decide on some of your employment conditions yourself. For
example, you could opt to receive part of your monthly salary at a
date of your choosing. You could also use the budget to purchase
additional leave, or vice versa, or spend it on tax-efficient
purchases. The Government of the Netherlands strongly values personal
growth and career development and offers a wide range of options to
achieve that. The fringe benefits include various study facilities,
company fitness, a full compensation of your public transport expenses
for your commute and partially paid parental leave

Location

De Bilt. The Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute.

The weather is fickle, the soil moves and the climate changes. For our
safety and prosperity, we need to know what risks and opportunities
this brings. And: how we can best prepare ourselves. The Royal
Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI) is the national knowledge
and data center for weather, climate and seismology. Reliable,
independent and focused on what the Netherlands needs. For a safe
Netherlands that is prepared for the impact of weather, climate and
earthquakes.

We use our core values - Development, Cooperation and Relevance - to
achieve our ambition, both within and outside KNMI, nationally and
internationally. We develop our knowledge and expertise and work
together to create a single KNMI that makes a difference to society!

Talent as the basis, diversity as the strength
The KNMI is an inclusive organization. An organization that provides
space for everyone and uses the strength of its diverse workforce to
achieve better results together for the Netherlands. Inclusive means
that everyone feels involved and valued; not in spite of their
differences, but thanks to them.

Organizationally, KNMI falls under the Ministry of Infrastructure and
Water Management.
The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management (IenW) is
committed to a safe, accessible, and livable Netherlands. That is why
the Ministry is working on powerful connections by road, rail, water
and air. And IenW protects against flooding, ensures the quality of
air, water and soil and the realization of a circular economy.



KNMI RDWK

The department Research and Development of Weather and Climate models
(RDWK) investigates and develops research tools for weather and air
quality prediction applications and climate research. We work on
detailed physical processes, data assimilation, long term climate
projections and practical applications including storm surge forecasts
and statistics of extremes. RDWK participates in international
projects directed towards a variety of weather and climate related
research and development areas. The department has a strong
international network.

The department performs its activities in collaboration with partners
like ACCORD, EC-Earth, the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather
Forecasts and universities. We work for the national road and water
authority Rijkswaterstaat, the Ministry for Infrastructure and Water
Management, the Dutch research funding organisation (NWO), the
European Copernicus programme and other European research programmes;
and on servicing the operational weather forecast centre, climate
scenarios and strategic research. The department collaborates with the
other KNMI departments.

Details

• you can apply for this position until 31 November 2022;
• the first interviews will take place on Monday, 19 December 2022;
• start date: 1 February 2023 with a duration of 2 years ;
• 36h/week, salary scale 11;
• obtaining references is part of the application process. An (online)
pre-selection test, an assessment, making a case and (online)
screening via databases, among others, can be part of the application
process;
• acquisition in response to this vacancy is not appreciated.
