---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in ocean modelling (Stanford, California)
subtitle: Stanford University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, submesoscales]
comments: false
---
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral researcher in *ocean
modeling* to work with Prof. Leif Thomas in the Department of Earth
System Science at Stanford University. The successful candidate will
pursue research to study the seasonal cycle of submesoscale turbulence
in the subtropical gyres and the interaction of wind-driven inertial
motions with eddies and fronts.The main objective of the research is to
improve our understanding of how submesoscale processes and wave-mean
flow interactions transfer energy between mesoscale flows and
small-scale turbulence and how this varies seasonally. The research is
part of multi-institution collaborative projects, and will involve a
combination of theory, numerical modeling, simulations to design
observational field campaigns, and analysis of submesoscale-resolving
observations. In addition, there will be opportunities to participate in
field campaigns in the Western Subtropical Pacific, if this is of
interest to the candidate.

*Responsibilities*: The postdoc will lead modeling efforts to study the
energetics of submesoscale turbulence and wave-mean flow interactions,
present findings at project meetings and at conferences, and publish
results in articles. The postdoc will engage with the larger group of
collaborators involved in the projects and will use the simulations to
help design strategies to optimally sample submesoscales in the field.
After the field campaigns, the postdoc will have the opportunity to
analyze the resulting submesoscale-resolving observations and use
process simulations to aid their interpretation.

*Qualifications*: A PhD in physical oceanography or related field,
experience with numerical modeling, a strong understanding of ocean
dynamics, and proficiency in a data analysis software such as Matlab or
Python are required. Experience using ROMS or a related ocean modelling
system (e.g. CROCO) or having a prior research focus on submesoscale
dynamics and/or wave-mean flow interactions is a plus.

Evaluation of applications will begin immediately and will continue
until the position is filled. The start date is flexible (ideally
between Summer and Fall 2022), but completion of the PhD is required. As
per university policy, candidates who have held postdoctoral
appointments for more than four years are not eligible. The initial
appointment is for one year and renewable for an additional year,
subject to satisfactory performance and funding availability. Salary is
commensurate with experience and a full benefits package is available
(https://postdocbenefits.stanford.edu/benefit-options). Stanford
postdoctoral scholars are expected to be on campus regularly, therefore
remote appointments will not be considered. Inquiries and applications
should be sent by email to leift@stanford.edu. Applications should
include a CV (with a list of publications), brief statement of research
interests and experience, and the names and contact information of three
references.


Stanford is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants
will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability,
veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
