---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor position in ocean change (Seattle, Washington)
subtitle: University of Washington
tags: [tenure, USA, ocean climate interaction, biogeochemistry, paleoceanography]
comments: false
---
*Assistant Professor (tenure-track) - The Changing Ocean - University of
Washington School of Oceanography*

Apply here: https://apply.interfolio.com/101378

The University of Washington School of Oceanography seeks applications for
a full time, 9-month faculty position at the level of tenure-track
Assistant Professor in the broad theme of the Changing Ocean. The
anticipated start date of the position is September 16, 2022. Review of
applications will begin on March 15, 2022. Applications will be considered
until the position is filled.

Oceans and coastlines change over diurnal-to-million-year timescales and
across the full range of spatial scales. Understanding linkages between the
past, present, and future states of the oceans relies on knowledge of
underlying mechanisms of natural and human-forced ocean and ecosystem
change. Our ability to detect and predict these changes hinges on our
understanding of the links between the physics, geology, chemistry, and
biology of the ocean. The successful applicant will be expected to expand
the school's research and teaching efforts related to ocean change.
Research and teaching could fall within a wide range of coastal or open
ocean topics, including but not limited to biogeochemistry, ecology, ocean
climate interaction, paleoceanography, geobiology or sedimentology. We
welcome the full range of approaches in applied and/or basic science, from
field observations and data analysis to laboratory or numerical simulations
and theoretical modeling.

Our academic unit is highly multidisciplinary and promotes a collegial
culture with broad interdisciplinary research ties throughout the School
and across the UW campus. UW faculty are expected to engage in research,
teaching, and service. The successful candidate for this position will
develop new or expanded areas of expertise within the School of
Oceanography and collaborate with colleagues within the School and College
of the Environment, and across the University. The candidate will be
expected to contribute to the teaching mission of the School, including
teaching across interdisciplinary topics, at the graduate and undergraduate
levels, and mentoring of graduate students. In all aspects of this
position, the candidate will be expected to promote a diverse, inclusive,
and equitable environment for students, faculty, staff, and the public.
Qualifications

Applicants should have the Ph.D. degree in Oceanography or a related field,
or foreign equivalent, by the start date of the appointment.

**Application Instructions**

Applicants are asked to describe plans for innovative and high-quality
research, teaching, and mentoring programs. We are committed to a holistic
review of applicants, recognizing that applicants have varying life
circumstances, pandemic experiences, and access to resources. Broad
categories to be considered during the reviewing process include an
applicant?s research creativity and accomplishments, research vision,
teaching, mentoring, commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI),
potential to succeed at the UW, and leadership capabilities. To apply,
applicants should upload the following materials to Interfolio (a cover
letter is not requested and will not be included in the review process):

(1) a curriculum vitae that includes educational background, positions
held, and a list of publications, including those under review, and other
relevant activities such as fieldwork, teaching and mentoring experiences,
leadership experience, service, outreach and participation in conferences.

(2) a research statement (maximum 1000 words). This statement is an
opportunity for the applicant to outline the strength and creativity of
their past and ongoing research; their broad vision for future research;
their potential to contribute to and lead research collaborations at the
School of Oceanography and the UW, leveraging existing expertise and
facilities; their potential for strengthening ties within the College of
the Environment as well as those across campus; and their experience and
commitment to mentoring and inclusive research practices.

(3) a teaching statement (maximum 1000 words). This statement is an
opportunity for the applicant to summarize their formal and informal
teaching experiences, their educational mentoring experiences, their
approach to interdisciplinary and inclusive teaching, and their strategies
and plans for how they might contribute at the introductory and advanced
level to the graduate and undergraduate curricula in Oceanography and, if
appropriate, the undergraduate curricula in Marine Biology. More
information about teaching in the School can be found at
https://www.ocean.washington.edu/story/Bachelor_Degrees_in_Oceanography;
https://marinebiology.uw.edu/courses; and
https://www.ocean.washington.edu/story/Current_Graduate_Students.

(4) a diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) statement (maximum 1000
words). This statement is an opportunity for the applicant to highlight
experiences with enhancing community engagement and equity through working
with indigenous and underserved communities, and contributing to a diverse
and inclusive work environment. This statement is also an opportunity to
describe future goals and specific ways the applicant might help or lead
efforts to advance the School?s commitments to DEI.

(5) the names, affiliations, and contact information for four references.

Our School strives to create an inclusive and welcoming environment where
people of all backgrounds, who bring a range of perspectives and life
experiences, are welcomed, heard and supported. We seek candidates who will
contribute substantially to these efforts and encourage applications from
underrepresented groups.

Review of applications will begin on March 15, 2022.  Applications will be
considered until the position is filled.

Questions regarding the application process or any potential disability
accommodations during the application and interview process can be directed
to oceanjob@uw.edu or the Search Committee Chair: Prof. Andrea Ogston,
ogston@uw.edu.

*Equal Employment Opportunity Statement *

University of Washington is an affirmative action and equal opportunity
employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin,
sex, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information,
gender identity or expression, age, disability, or protected veteran status.

*Commitment to Diversity *

The University of Washington is committed to building diversity among its
faculty, librarian, staff, and student communities, and articulates that
commitment in the UW Diversity Blueprint (
http://www.washington.edu/diversity/diversity-blueprint/). Additionally,
the University?s Faculty Code recognizes faculty efforts in research,
teaching and/or service that address diversity and equal opportunity as
important contributions to a faculty member?s academic profile and
responsibilities (
https://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/FCG/FCCH24.html#2432).

*COVID-19 Vaccine Requirements and Information*

Under Washington State Governor Inslee's Proclamation 21-14.1
https://www.governor.wa.gov/sites/default/files/proclamations/21-14.1%20-%20COVID-19%20Vax%20Washington%20Amendment.pdf?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery,
University of Washington (UW) workers must be fully vaccinated against
COVID-19 and provide proof thereof, or receive a UW-approved medical or
religious exemption. This requirement will be a condition of any offer
associated with this recruitment. For more information, please visit
https://www.washington.edu/coronavirus/vaccination-requirement/.

**Application Process**

This institution is using Interfolio's Faculty Search to conduct this
search. Applicants to this position receive a free Dossier account and can
send all application materials, including confidential letters of
recommendation, free of charge.
Apply Now: https://dossier.interfolio.com/apply/101378

