---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in equatorial Pacific dynamics (Princeton, New Jersey)
subtitle: Princeton University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, Pacific Ocean, ENSO]
comments: false
---
The Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Program at Princeton University, in association with NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL), seeks a postdoctoral or more senior  research scientist for research on equatorial Pacific climate processes and their impacts on climate variability including the El Nino/Southern Oscillation (ENSO).  The scientist will use observations and models to advance mechanistic understanding and simulations of equatorial Pacific climate with a particular focus on oceanic upwelling and mixing, the upper-ocean heat budget, and air-sea interactions at diurnal-to-interannual time scales.

The selected candidate will join a vigorous research group at Princeton University, working in close collaboration with Drs. Andrew Wittenberg and Brandon Reichl at NOAA/GFDL.  The individual will have access to state-of-the-art numerical models and high-performance computing systems at Princeton and NOAA, joining forces with GFDL model developers to understand model biases and advance simulations, predictions, and future projections through refined resolution, ocean process parameterizations, and bias-correction strategies.  The researcher will have the opportunity to analyze large data sets from observations, ocean/atmosphere re-analyses, and high-resolution simulations from GFDL's MOM6<https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/mom-ocean-model/> and SPEAR<https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/spear/> models, to improve understanding of climate, variability, and change related to the equatorial Pacific region.  The researcher will further have opportunities to inform ocean observing via the Pacific Upwelling and Mixing Processes (PUMP) component of the international Tropical Pacific Observing System (TPOS) (https://tropicalpacific.org/), and to contribute novel model diagnostics to the scientific community via the International CLIVAR ENSO Metrics<https://cmec.llnl.gov/results/enso/> package.

Candidates must have a Ph.D. in physical oceanography, climate dynamics, applied math, the physical sciences, or a closely related field.  The following attributes are desirable: (a) a background in upper-ocean processes and coupled ocean-atmosphere dynamics relevant to the equatorial Pacific climate system; (b) experience in using advanced climate models and analyzing large observational and model datasets; (c) a creative and logical approach to formulating and testing new hypotheses, and proficiency in assessing statistical robustness of results; (d) excellent written, oral, and visual communication skills, demonstrated through prior peer-reviewed publications and presentations at major conferences; and (e) experience with climate modeling and analysis tools, such as Linux, Bash/Csh, Python, Fortran, NetCDF, NCO, CDO, Pangeo, Jupyter, PyFerret, Matlab, and/or NCL.  Prior experience with the MOM6 model is desirable but not required.  Postdoctoral appointments are initially for one year, with renewal up to two additional years based on satisfactory performance and available funding.

Complete applications include a CV, publication list and presentation list, a one-to-two page research statement, and 3 letters of recommendation. Princeton is interested in candidates who, through their research, will contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community.  Applicants should apply online https://www.princeton.edu/acad-positions/position/26681.  For additional information, contact Andrew Wittenberg (andrew.wittenberg@noaa.gov<mailto:andrew.wittenberg@noaa.gov>).  This position is subject to the University's background check policy.

Princeton University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
