---
layout: post
title: Postdoc on ocean vertical transport observations (La Spezia, Italy)
subtitle: Institute of Marine Sciences of the National Research Council
tags: [postdoc, Italy, observations, Mediterranean Sea]
comments: false
---
The Institute of Marine Sciences of the National Research Council
(CNR-ISMAR, Italy) offers one fellowship for conducting research
activitiesat the Unit of Lerici (La Spezia, Italy) under the framework
of the Project 3D-PATHWAYS II (CALYPSO- ONR Initiative, see https://calypsodri.whoi.edu/).

The focus of the fellowship is the *Analysis of in situ and remote
oceanographic data, collected in the framework of the project
3D-Pathways II (CALYPSO - ONR Research Initiative), devoted to the
investigation of passive transport driven by marine currents, with
specific focus on the vertical component. Collaboration to the
development and management of the Lagrangian observing system and
related dataset*,//under the scientific responsibility of Dr.
Maristella Berta.

The research fellow would join a highly experienced group in Lagrangian
observations and methodologies, and will participate to the analysis of
unique and interesting datasets that should result in a valuable set of
publications. Collected datasets include multiplatform field campaigns
in the Western Mediterranean Sea.

*Degree in Engineering, Informatics, Mathematics, Physics, Environmental
Sciences, Spatial Sciences and Technologies, Nautical Sciences or
Oceanography, Marine Sciences and related fields*. PhD is not strictly
required.

The duration of the fellowship is one year (renewable).

Deadline: October 3, 2022.

Further information at:

https://bandi.urp.cnr.it/doc-assegni/documentazione/12891_DOC_IT.pdf

Call announcement code: ISMAR-025-2022-SP
