---
layout: post
title: PhD or MSc position in physical oceanography (College Station, Texas)
subtitle: Texas A&M University
tags: [PhD, USA, numerical modelling, Atlantic Ocean, AMOC]
comments: false
---
The Ocean Physics And Tracer Transport (OPATT) group at Texas A&M, led by
Dr. Spencer Jones, is seeking an enthusiastic and committed MS or PhD
student to join a funded project in August 2023.


The Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC) transports surface
and intermediate waters northward in the Atlantic basin: these waters feed
deep water formation in the North Atlantic. Guided by Dr Jones, the
graduate student will investigate the pathways that northward-flowing
surface and intermediate waters take as they pass through the Tropical
Atlantic. Lagrangian particles will be seeded in a high resolution ocean
model, and the graduate student will investigate their trajectories. We
will also investigate how advective and diffusive processes contribute to
temperature and salinity transport in this region of the model. Through
working on this project, the student will learn about ocean physics and
parallel processing tools in Python, as well as developing into an
independent researcher with strong communication and writing skills.


Applicants must have (or be close to completing) an undergraduate degree in
a quantitative subject such as Mathematics, Physics, or Engineering.
Undergraduate degrees in Oceanography, Geoscience, or a similar subject
will also be considered, providing the applicant has taken a vector
calculus course. We encourage applications from people of all backgrounds,
including members of communities that are marginalized and/or racialized by
the systems that control modern western science. Applicants are encouraged
to contact Dr. Spencer Jones (spencerjones@tamu.edu) with their CV before
applying through the Texas A&M portal (see
https://ocean.tamu.edu/graduate-students/ms-phd-oceanography/ms-phd-information/index.html
for details).
