---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in storm surge modelling (Charlottesville, Virginia)
subtitle: University of Virginia
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, coastal ocean, storm surges]
comments: false
---
The Department of Environmental Sciences at the University Virginia invites applications for a Postdoctoral Research Associate. The successful candidate will lead a hydrodynamic modeling effort on storm surge to characterize flooding risks associated with storms in rural communities on the Eastern Shore of Virginia. The candidate will work with an interdisciplinary team of environmental scientists, engineers, data scientists and climate equity researchers on a NSF-funded Coasts and People (CoPe) project to build community capacity for climate resilience.

QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: A Ph.D. degree in marine science, coastal oceanography, environmental science, engineering, or a related discipline is required by the appointment start date. The candidate must have effective interpersonal and organizational skills, proficiency in hydrodynamic modeling (Delft-3D preferred), programming-based data analysis (e.g., using MATLAB or Python), and a desire to translate research results into tools useful for community action. Ideal preparation for the position includes ability to work independently, excellent modeling skills, experience in working in a research team, and knowledge of shallow estuarine hydrodynamics, particularly on the mid-Atlantic coast. The successful candidate will be expected to design and run model simulations; analyze and manage model output and data; disseminate research findings through journal publications and conference presentations; and contribute collegially to the research group and an interdisciplinary department.
 Dr. Patricia Wiberg will work with the successful candidate to create an individual development plan to set goals and work toward career objectives.

TO APPLY: Apply online at https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Associate-in-Environmental-Sciences_R0035176 <https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Associate-in-Environmental-Sciences_R0035176>  and attach the following:

1- a cover letter that provides a brief summary of relevant research experience, experience working collaboratively, and commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive scholarly environment

2- a curriculum vitae

3- one publication representative of previous work

4- contact information for three references.

Please note that multiple documents can be uploaded in the box.


APPLICATION DEADLINE: Review of applications will begin May 2, 2022, and continue until the position is filled, with an anticipated start date in Summer 2022. The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to employment.

This is a one-year appointment, with the potential for renewal for one additional year given satisfactory performance and available funding.

Please direct questions regarding this position to Patricia Wiberg, Professor, at pw3c@virginia.edu.

For questions about the application process, please contact Rich Haverstrom, Faculty Search Advisor, at rkh6j@virginia.edu <mailto:rkh6j@virginia.edu>.

This position is eligible for health insurance through the UVA Health Plan. For more information on the benefits, see the websites for the Office of Postdoctoral Affairs (postdoc.virginia.edu <http://postdoc.virginia.edu/>) and University Human Resources (hr.virginia.edu/benefits <http://hr.virginia.edu/benefits>). The successful candidate will be eligible for consultations with the UVA Dual Career Program (dualcareer.virginia.edu <https://dualcareer.virginia.edu/>), which provides consultations for individuals relocating with spouses and partners.


COVID Vaccination Requirement and Guidelines

Please visit the UVA COVID-19 Job Requirements and Guidelines <https://hr.virginia.edu/uva-covid-19-job-requirements-and-guidelines> webpage prior to applying for current information regarding vaccination requirements?and?guidelines for employment at UVA.

The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician?s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff.  We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences.  We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.
