---
layout: post
title: Tenure-track faculty position in chemical oceanography / marine geochemistry (Manoa, Hawaii)
subtitle: University of Hawaii at Manoa, Department of Oceanography
tags: [tenure, USA, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
The Department of Oceanography in the School of Ocean and Earth Science and
Technology at the University of Hawaii at Manoa (UH) invites applications
for a full-time tenure-track faculty position in Marine Geology &
Geochemistry at the rank of Assistant Professor, with 9 months of State
funding annually.

Application Review Begins: July 1, 2022

We seek an Oceanographer who will expand the expertise of our department
and integrate cutting-edge research with undergraduate and graduate
education. Since its founding over half a century ago, the Department of
Oceanography has been a world leader in interdisciplinary oceanographic
research and education, and we are excited to grow our dynamic, vibrant
community with new colleagues to carry this legacy into the future. The
University of Hawai?i Marine Center is home to the R/V Kilo Moana and the
ROV Luukai. UH is the only recognized Native Hawaiian-serving R1
university and draws students from a diverse population including Hawaiian,
Pacific Islander, and Asian ethnicities. The Department is committed to
serving and affirming our unique community and culture in the center of the
Pacific Ocean and to continued support of research excellence.

The successful candidate will conduct research that addresses central
problems in global ocean biogeochemistry, including, but not limited to,
large-scale cycles of nutrients, organic matter or trace elements, organic
and/or isotope geochemistry, paleoceanography, or biogeochemical modeling.

Position duties include: developing and sustaining a vigorous
extramurally-supported, collaborative research program that complements
existing expertise in the department and school; achieving excellence in
the classroom, establishing learning objectives and using innovative
methods to achieve them; mentoring students in both the graduate
Oceanography and undergraduate Global Environmental Science programs; and,
providing service to the public, department, school, university, and larger
scientific community.

Required qualifications include: a Ph.D., or equivalent, in a relevant
field; demonstrated ability to communicate effectively; demonstrated
capability for creative, high-quality research; the ability to effectively
teach and mentor a diverse population of undergraduate and graduate
students; and commitment to support our shared values
of inclusion, mutual respect, collaboration, justice, and equity, so that
people from every background feel welcome and can thrive.

Desirable qualifications include: research that is responsive to the needs
of Hawaii, contributes to interdisciplinary collaboration, utilizes the
oceanographic setting of Hawai?i, and/or leverages UH research capabilities.

Apply online at www.governmentjobs.com/careers/hawaiiedu. 

Search for position number 85973 and click on *Apply* (top right corner of the
screen). If this is your first time using NEOGOV you will need to create an
account. Applicants must upload the following: (1) a cover letter, (2) a
curriculum vitae, (3) statements that explain your (3a) research interests,
(3b) teaching interests, and (3c) your commitment to and/or experience in
promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace, (4) three
representative publications, and (5) the names and contact information of
three references. Statements in (3) should directly address how you meet
the minimum and desired qualifications and topics may include, but are not
limited to: scientific leadership, research methodologies, how you will
strengthen and complement the mission of the Department of Oceanography and
the School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology, mentoring, innovative
pedagogy, service and outreach, or strategies for engaging a wide variety
of learners and stakeholders. 

Questions should be directed to the search
committee chair, Dr. Brian Glazer (glazer@hawaii.edu). 

More information
about the Department of Oceanography can be found at
http://ocean.hawaii.edu/. Review of applications will begin on July 1,
2022, and will continue until the position has been filled, subject to
position clearance. The complete vacancy announcement can be found at:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/hawaiiedu. The University of Hawaii is an
equal opportunity / affirmative action institution.
