---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor or postdoc position in coastal ocean modeling (Yantai, China)
subtitle: Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research
tags: [postdoc, China, numerical modelling, coastal ocean, waves]
comments: false
---
Assistant Professor or Postdoc in Wave-current/Hydrodynamic Modeling,
observation and data analysis of the coastal zone in Yantai City, China. Open until filled.



What You Will Do

Miaohua Mao's numerical modeling team seeks applicants with expertise in the
numerical modeling or observation and data analysis of the coastal,
estuarine, lake and surf zone hydrodynamics. The successful candidate will
work on the parameterizations and physical explanations of plume dynamics,
wave dynamics, storm surge, circulation, and sediment transport dynamics or
further setting up and developing the observational system in the coastal
zone such as the Bohai Sea or Yellow River Delta nearshore and surf zone,
China. Outcomes from this work will be presented at the national and
international conferences and published in the peer-reviewed high-quality
journals.



What You Need

Desired Skills: The successful candidates should have experience in the
ocean/wave/surf zone modeling, fluid dynamics, or coastal observation. The
candidate will need the skill in the data analysis and visualization (e.g.,
Matlab), and be familiar with the Linux system, Fortran and C++ codes. The
experience in the model calibration and validation against observational
data is preferred. The ability to work in a highly cooperative but
independent team is a requirement. The experience of the publications in the
peer-reviewed journals is highly encouraged, such as those ranking at least
Quartile 3 based on the Chinese Academy of Sciences journal ranking system.

Education: A Ph.D. degree in the marine/ocean science, physical
oceanography, fluid dynamics, geophysics, mathematics, earth science, or
related fields.



Where You Will Work

Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences is
located at the beautiful coastal city of Yantai, Shandong Province, China.
The successful candidate will be provided an office together with other
researchers at Yantai, while he/she could visit the University of Maryland
Eastern Shore numerical modeling group in Maryland, USA. The numerical
simulations will be conducted via the remotely connected supercomputer
system. The assistant professor or postdoc position is 2 or 3 years.



Application Procedure

Before a formal application, the applicants are encouraged to send a brief
description of your research interest/area and an updated CV to Miaohua Mao
(http://ir.yic.ac.cn/profile/mhmao) at mhmao@yic.ac.cn
<mailto:mhmao@yic.ac.cn> .



Location: Yantai, China.



Organization Name: Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research (YIC), Chinese
Academy of Sciences (CAS). (http://www.yic.cas.cn/)



Job Title: Hydrodynamic/wave modeling or observation and data analysis in
the Bohai Sea, coastal or surf zone.



Appointment Type: Assistant Professor or Postdoc.



Salary: Up to 45 k U.S. dollars/year (~300 k RMB) plus social benefit + free
accommodation in the faculty building of the Institution.



Introduction of the current group:



The numerical modelling team is an international team, which includes the
full time Professor (1), Assistant Professor (2), and Postdoc (2) from
China, India, Iran, Visiting Professor from US, Visiting Scholar from
Shenzhen University (Assistant Professor). This team has recruited fresh
graduate students from Vietnam National University (CAS full scholarship)
and 5 domestic graduate students (including 1 Ph.D.). The disciplines of the
team members involve atmospheric science, physical oceanography and
hydrology, and their research interests focus on the observational numerical
modelling and observational analysis. This is a vigorous team with the
guidance and help from the experienced US Visiting Professor, we hope
excellent postdoc to join this group. The focus of the research fields
including the model development and applications for atmosphere (e.g., WRF),
wave-current (e.g., FVCOM/SWAVE), wave (e.g., SWAN), hydrodynamics (e.g.,
FVCOM or ADCIRC), Lagrangian particle-tracking, or water quality
(FVCOM-ICM); the observation instruments include the Valeport MIDAS DWR (for
wave), Seabird CTD, Teledyne Workhouse ADCP, Nortek 400kHz ADCP, BL 900 MM
wave buoy, LS-DB300MM surface drifters etc.



Miaohua Mao

Dr. Miaohua Mao got his BS in Zhejiang University (China) and achieved PhD
degree at University of Maryland Eastern Shore (USA) in 2018. Dr. Mao works
at Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research (YIC), Chinese Academy of
Sciences (CAS) as Full Professor and Ph.D. advisor. His research interests
include but are not limited to nearshore and surf zone hydrodynamics,
numerical modeling of coastal circulation and wave dynamics, and observation
of wave-current interaction. Dr. Mao leads several publications in the
prestigious journals including JGR: Oceans and Ocean Modelling and presented
over 20 times at the international academic conferences. Dr. Mao is a
reviewer of peer-reviewed journals such as Progress in Oceanography,
Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science (ECSS), Ocean Dynamics, and award as
the outstanding contribution in reviewing ECSS of year 2018. Dr. Mao is a PI
(Principal Investigator) for several projects with funding &gt;7M RMB,
including those from the National Science Foundation of China (NSFC),
Chinese Academy of Science (CAS), Yantai Government, Yantai Institute of
Coastal Zone Research (YIC, CAS) etc.

Profile: http://ir.yic.ac.cn/profile/mhmao

http://www.yic.cas.cn/yjsjy/yjsdsjj/202103/t20210331_5988045.html
