---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in modelling the planetary boundary layer (Princeton, New Jersey)
subtitle: Princeton University, Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, air-sea interactions, surface boundary layer]
comments: false
---
The Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Program at Princeton University, in cooperation with NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL), seeks a postdoctoral or more senior researcher for a position to investigate a new higher-order turbulence closure for modeling planetary boundary layer momentum flux in Earth system models at GFDL. The researcher will work in collaboration with scientists at Pennsylvania State University, University of Wisconsin, and National Center for Atmospheric Research, to include a prognostic treatment of momentum flux in CLUBB (Cloud Layers Unified By Binormals) higher-order closure for boundary-layer turbulence. The position will support a multi-agency, interdisciplinary Climate Process Team. The team will provide unique opportunities to blend modeling, theory, and observational perspectives. The Climate Process Team is tackling some of the most challenging problems in climate science and atmospheric prediction using one of the world?s leading modeling systems.

This is a one-year position, but there is a possibility of additional funding becoming available, for up to 2 additional years.

Successful applicants will work with Ming Zhao and Leo Donner at GFDL and multi-institutional team members. Scientists with backgrounds in general circulation modeling, parameterization development, and modeling of atmospheric processes are especially encouraged to apply. Candidates must have a PhD in atmospheric science or a related field. Complete applications, including a CV, a statement describing research interests and how they would contribute to the project, and contact information for 3 references should be submitted by February 15, 2022, 11:59 pm EST for full consideration. Princeton is interested in candidates who, through their research, will contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Applicants should apply online at https://www.princeton.edu/acad-positions/position/24261. This position is subject to the University?s background check policy.

For more information about the research project and application process, please contact Ming Zhao (ming.zhao@noaa.gov<mailto:ming.zhao@noaa.gov>) or Leo Donner (leo.j.donner@noaa.gov<mailto:leo.j.donner@noaa.gov>). Princeton University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
