---
layout: post
title: Research engineer position on climate model evaluation (Toulouse, France)
subtitle: CNRM, Meteo-France
tags: [engineer, France, numerical modelling, observations, sea ice]
comments: false
---
Research Engineer position at CNRM (Météo-France & CNRS), Toulouse (France)

The Centre National de Recherches Météorologiques (CNRM, Meteo-France
& CNRS) offers a research engineer position on the "Development of a
climate atlas for the evaluation of sea-ice simulations", in Toulouse,
France, for a duration of 7 months starting on jul, 1, 2022, or the
sooner after this date, with a possible 10-month extension. Deadline
for application is 19 May, 2022. See further details below. Please
feel free to forward to anyone who might be interested.


Location : Météo-France’s Research Center (CNRM), Climate and
Atmospheric Composition Department, Toulouse, France

Duration of contract : 7 months, possible 10 month-extension

Target start date: July 1st 2022 or the sooner after this date (before
October 1st 2022)

Application deadline : May 19th, 2022

Contact : david.salas@meteo.fr, gmgecd@gmail.com

Context and Objectives

The current position is proposed within the framework of the European
H2020 project IS ENES3, whose main objectives are to foster
collaboration among the European modelling groups to speed-up the
development and use of models of Earth System models (ESMs), deliver
common strategies for the research infrastructure, and disseminate
model data.

In this context, CNRM is in charge of testing the new community
sea-ice model SI3 in its environment. The successful candidate will
contribute to the evaluation of this new model against CNRM’s current
sea-ice model Gelato and observations. To do so, he/she will develop a
climate atlas, based on existing similar tools previously developed at
CNRM (for regional and global simulations and Earth system components
other than sea-ice). The atlas will be based on CliMAF
(https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://climaf.readthedocs.io__;!!KGKeukY!2WuhQR_5UuyMOMbXxCgJXWatn7RNgAijIlpw0t7Td30skS4Dts8C0H4VXCZLhdoQhuisPtqgXyDLuWxOteY2$ ), and, based on climate data
processing, will produce a set of plots (maps, time series) and arrays
of metrics, whose presentation will be organised in html pages. The
Atlas should be ultimately flexible enough to be easily used by other
users, to disable/enable various diagnostics, to use different
observation or reference datasets and to be applied to the Arctic
and/or Antarctic, or to the global domain.

Required qualification

The successful candidate may be either a research engineer or an early
career researcher. He/she must have at least a master's degree in
Earth sciences, computer science, applied mathematics or a similar
discipline. The candidates should have the following qualifications :
• Strong numerical skills (Linux, Python)
• Good experience in climate data formats and analysis tools (NetCDF,
CDO, NCO…) • Good experience in graphical softwares (NCL, Python
packages such as matplotlib) • Good writing and synthesis skills
• Good teamwork and communication skills

Practical aspects

The work will be performed at Météo-France in Toulouse (France). The
working language will be English and/or French.

The gross monthly salary will be between ~2552 and ~3280 euros
depending on the experience and the level of recruitment (engineer or
early carrier researcher) of the successful candidate, including
social security.

The duration of the proposed contract will be 7 months, with a
possible extension on another contract on similar activities.

Application procedure

Applicants should send to David Salas y Melia (david.salas@meteo.fr,
gmgecd@gmail.com) :
• a curriculum vitae (including research or technical experience,
publications and proceedings, computing skills and language level in
particular in French, etc.),
• a brief statement of research or engineer interests and motivations
for the job,
• the names and contact details (affiliation, position and email) of
two referees who could support your application.

Please note that attachments larger than ~5 Mo are not supported by
Meteo-France e-mail server and should be made available via a
repository box (e.g. Dropbox, WeTransfer, ...)

Applications should be sent by email no later than May 19th, 2022.

Consideration of applications will begin immediately after May 19th,
2022. Expected starting date is July 1st, 2022 or the sooner after.

Hosting institution

The Centre National de Recherches Météorologiques (CNRM) is the
research department of Météo-France (https://urldefense.com/v3/__http://www.umr-cnrm.fr/__;!!KGKeukY!2WuhQR_5UuyMOMbXxCgJXWatn7RNgAijIlpw0t7Td30skS4Dts8C0H4VXCZLhdoQhuisPtqgXyDLuYBIfH7H$ ). It is
responsible for conducting the largest part of the research activities
in weather forecasting, climate modelling, atmospheric chemistry,
oceanography and land-surface processes. Within CNRM, the GMGEC
departement is in charge of understanding scale interactions,
interactions between the various components of the climate system
including air composition, the response of the climate system to
anthropogenic forcing, and sources of variability and long-term
predictability. These activities are carried out in particular through
the modelling of climate, atmospheric composition and air quality at
global and regional scales, participation in model intercomparison
exercises such as CMIP and their analysis, impact studies and the
detection-attribution of observed climate change.
