---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in ocean biology data processing and evaluation (Greenbelt, Maryland)
subtitle: Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC), Ocean Ecology Laboratory
tags: [postdoc, USA, biogeochemsitry, ocean color]
comments: false
---
The Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research II (GESTAR II)
<https://gestar2.umbc.edu/> consortium at NASA's Goddard Space Flight
Center (GSFC) <https://www.nasa.gov/goddard/> invites applications for a
postdoctoral position in the Ocean Ecology Laboratory (Code 616) at NASA
Goddard Space Flight Center
<https://science.gsfc.nasa.gov/earth/oceanecology/>. The lab conducts
research on ocean ecosystems and the interactions between Earth?s chemical
cycles and life. The laboratory primarily manages *ocean color* data from
NASA satellite sensors. The candidate will join the Ocean Biology
Processing Group (OBPG) and focus on the development and evaluation of
bio-optical algorithms for derivation of aquatic inherent optical
properties (IOPs) from MODIS, VIIRS, OLCI, SGLI, and PACE.

The successful candidate will join the GESTAR II Consortium which supports
over 120 researchers based primarily at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
(GSFC). GESTAR II researchers work to create extensive opportunities for
breakthroughs in earth and atmospheric science research, carrying out
observational, experimental and theoretical research in support of NASA
strategic Earth Science mission objectives.

Goddard's Earth Science Division is home to about 200 civil servants and
over 1200 collaborating researchers and support personnel dedicated to
studying the Earth as an integrated system that includes the atmosphere,
oceans, biosphere, cryosphere, and geosphere. The Division operates as a
component of the Sciences and Exploration Directorate that collaborate on
interdisciplinary research with the Astrophysics Science, Heliophysics
Science, and Solar System Exploration Divisions.



The researcher will focus on:

   - developing and evaluating updates to the Generalized Inherent Optical
   Property (GIOP) software framework,
   - evaluating and refining existing QA/QC metrics and skill assessment
   procedures,
   - evaluating in situ and other satellite data streams related to
   bio-optical algorithm development, assembly of data sets, evaluation and
   intercomparison of time-series,
   - contributing to reporting of algorithm retrieval skill via the OBPG?s
   ocean color satellite-to-in situ validation system,
   - collaborating with OBPG staff on general ocean color satellite
   calibration and validation activities,
   - presenting at NASA and professional society meetings and documenting
   work in peer-reviewed literature, and
   - conducting periodic independent research and assisting with NASA
   proposal writing as appropriate.



Anticipated specific research duties include investigation of multivariate
models and machine learning techniques for use in IOP retrievals and the
extension of bio-optical algorithms to ESA/EUMETSAT OLCI and JAXA SGLI
satellite data streams.



Required knowledge and skills:

   - PhD in oceanography, physics, mathematics, or a related field,
   - research experience in bio-optics, remote-sensing, and radiative
   transfer theory,
   - demonstrated working knowledge of inverse models, multivariate
   modeling and/or machine learning algorithms,
   - proficiency in one or more programming languages such as
   Python/Matlab/R/Julia for the analysis of scientific data,
   - experience in NASA?s SeaDAS or related satellite data-processing
   software, and
   - good oral and written communication skills demonstrated by a
   publication record in peer-reviewed literature and/or scientific reports as
   first author, and a record of presenting research outcomes at
   seminars/meetings/conferences.



Desired knowledge and skills :

   - Familiarity with Sentinel-3 OLCI and JAXA SGLI ocean color datasets,
   - experience with measurement uncertainty propagation/estimation
   techniques,
   - experience working in Unix/Linux software environments,
   - proficiency in FORTRAN, C, or C++ programming language, and
   - experience using version control software git/svn.



How to apply:

Candidates should provide a cover letter, three page statement of research
interests and CV (including publication list). Short-listed candidates will
be asked to supply three letters of reference at a later date. All
materials and inquiries should be sent by email Subject line: Task 130:
Researcher Position to: Halley Thompson halleyt@umbc.edu.

Salary and benefits are competitive, commensurate with experience and
qualifications. The GESTAR II consortium and NASA/GSFC are committed to
building a diverse research community and encourages applications from
women, racial and ethnic minorities, individuals with disabilities and
veterans. All GESTAR II institutions are Affirmative Action, Equal
Opportunity Employers.

This posting will remain open until 5/20/2022. The nominal starting date is
in July, 2022, but alternate dates are possible depending on availability.

This position is a one-year contract, renewable depending upon performance
and funding availability.

For more information about the proposed research, contact Dr. Jeremy
Werdell (jeremy.werdell@nasa.gov).
