---
layout: post
title: PhD position in mechanisms and predictability of climate extremes (Mount Pleasant, Michigan)
subtitle: Central Michigan University
tags: [PhD, USA, numerical modelling, climate extremes]
comments: false
---
There is an opening for a doctoral student in the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Science at Central Michigan University within the broad topic of mechanisms and predictability of climate extremes. The PhD degree falls under the Earth and Ecosystem Sciences (EES) program at Central Michigan University. The student will investigate remote ocean impacts on climate variability, climate factors on seasonal tropical cyclone activity, and/or improving predictability and understanding of extreme climate events. The student may run climate models, use machine learning approaches, and apply advanced statistical models. Applicants with a background in atmospheric science, meteorology, climate science, physical oceanography, or other related fields are welcome to apply. Preference will be given to those with a master’s degree prior to the start date. Previous scientific programming using NCL, GrADS, MATLAB, Python, and/or R is highly preferred. The doctoral student will be supervised by Dr. Zachary Johnson. The preferred start date is August 2023. This is a 4-year, fully-funded position. For interested candidates, please email your CV, research statement, and contact information for three references to johns1zf@cmich.edu. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions.

Central Michigan University is nestled in Mount Pleasant, Michigan, a small city with a vibrant, walkable downtown, a low cost of living, and plenty of outdoor activities nearby. Mount Pleasant is located about an hour’s drive from larger cities, such as Grand Rapids and Lansing, and about two hours from Ann Arbor and Detroit. Central Michigan University offers a competitive package for PhD students, including tuition and student fee waivers and health insurance allowances.
