---
layout: post
title: Department Chair in ocean and earth sciences (Norfolk, Virginia)
subtitle: Old Dominion University
tags: [professorship, USA, sea level rise, coastal adaptation]
comments: false
---

The Department of Ocean and Earth Sciences at Old Dominion University (ODU) seeks highly qualified faculty candidates for Department Chair, starting in May 2023. We seek an accomplished colleague within the broad area of Ocean and Earth Sciences to complement an interdisciplinary faculty and provide ongoing leadership for expanding programs in oceanography, coastal geosciences and climate adaptation. We are interested in candidates using novel and interdisciplinary approaches to tackle the next generation of research challenges.



The successful chair candidate will also be considered for selection as the Endowed Slover Professor of Ocean and Earth Sciences. They will be expected to bring and maintain an externally-funded research program, contribute to teaching and mentoring of graduate students, and provide leadership for departmental and ODU's interdisciplinary research activities, which include our maritime and sea-level rise programs and the Institute for Coastal Adaptation and Resilience (https://oduadaptationandresilience.org/). The Department of Ocean & Earth Sciences<https://www.odu.edu/oeas> has 25 faculty members with multiple strengths across the oceanographic and geoscience disciplines.



Minimum qualifications:

  1.  A Ph.D. in Ocean Science, Geoscience, or a related field
  2.  Eligible for appointment at the rank of Professor with tenure
  3.  Prior leadership activities in research and academic settings
  4.  Faculty experience at an accredited institution
  5.  Excellence in interpersonal skills and written communication



Preferred qualifications:

  *   Prior experience as a department chair
  *   The ability to promote increases in sponsored research activity among faculty
  *   The commitment to support activities and partnerships that will advance the reputation of the department, college and university
  *   Expertise across interdisciplinary areas of ocean sciences that complement current faculty, such as coastal oceanography, ocean observing systems, marine biogeochemistry, coupled human-natural systems, coastal sustainability and environmental data sciences or other oceanographic branches



The ideal candidate will have a history of scholarly publications and sustained record of funded research, student mentoring and demonstrated experience teaching at the undergraduate and graduate levels.

Old Dominion University
ODU, located in the city of Norfolk, Virginia, is an R1 public research institution that serves its students and enriches the Commonwealth of Virginia, the nation, and the world, through rigorous academic programs, strategic partnerships, and active civic engagement. With more than 24,000 students, ODU provides rigorous academics, an energetic residential community, and initiatives contributing $2.6 billion annually to Virginia's economy. With over 160,000 alumni, ODU has a 94 percent employment rate for its graduates within six months, with a dedication to producing top talent for the Hampton Roads region and Virginia. ODU provides educational opportunities for active military, veteran students, and their families and is ranked as the top "Best for Vets" school in Virginia, with 25 percent of their student body being military affiliated.

Norfolk is one of the seven cities that make up the historic Hampton Roads region of Virginia, a major recreation area with a population of 1.7 million. Home to the world's largest natural deep-water port and third busiest port on the East Coast, the Atlantic headquarters of NATO, and Naval Station Norfolk, which houses the U.S. Navy and U.S. Fleet Forces Command, Norfolk was recently named a 'Best City for Entrepreneurship' by Entrepreneur Magazine. The Hampton Roads region is experiencing a surge in entrepreneurial activity through collaborative initiatives between the university and local businesses and government agencies.

Department of Ocean & Earth Sciences
The Department of Ocean & Earth Sciences has a very collegial and supportive culture and includes the following tenure track faculty: Dr. Larry Atkinson, Dr. Dennis A. Darby, Dr. Ann Gargett, Dr. John Mcconaugha, Dr. Ali A., Dr. George F. Oertel, Dr. Thomas C. Royer, Dr. Joseph H. Rule, Dr. Donald J. P. Swift, and Dr. George T.F. Wong. Please click here<https://www.odu.edu/business/departments/management/directory> for more details about our faculty.

The Department of Ocean & Earth Sciences acquires and disseminates knowledge of the earth system, including the relationships among the biological, chemical, geological and physical components of our planet. It is critical that we understand both natural and human-induced processes that change this system so we are prepared to meet present and future challenges. With curiosity, creativity, scholarship, and respect as cornerstones of our philosophy, we strive to increase scientific knowledge and literacy through excellence in research, education, and service to the Commonwealth of Virginia and society in general.

The Department is committed to inclusive excellence, recognizing that diversity enhances and enriches our educational mission, employment experience, and community engagement. We seek candidates whose research, teaching, and/or service experiences have prepared them to fulfill our commitment to inclusion. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics, disability, age, or veteran status.

Application
Interested candidates should submit materials at https://jobs.odu.edu/postings/17278. Applicants should attach the following to the online application: a cover letter describing qualifications for this position; a curriculum vitae; a statement addressing research and leadership; a statement addressing teaching; a diversity and inclusion statement; unofficial graduate transcripts; and contact information for three professional references (references will be contacted to solicit a recommendation letter if the candidate successfully progresses in the search).

The review of applications will begin on December 1, 2022 and continue until the position is filled. Questions and nominations for this position can be addressed in confidence to the search committee chair, Dr. Rodger Harvey (rharvey@odu.edu<mailto:rharvey@odu.edu>).

It is the policy of Old Dominion University to provide equal employment, educational and social opportunities for all persons, without regard to race (or traits historically associated with race including hair texture, hair type, and protective hairstyles such as braids, locks, and twists), color, religion, sex or gender (including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), national origin, gender identity or expression, age, veteran status, disability, political affiliation, sexual orientation or genetic information. Minorities, women, veterans, LGBTQ+, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
