---
layout: post
title: Postdoc positions in climate science (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
subtitle: University of Pennsylvania
tags: [postdoc, USA, climate dynamics, climate variability]
comments: false
---
We are seeking postdoctoral researchers with backgrounds in climate
science or closely related disciplines to be part of a cohort of
scholars in the Department of Earth & Environmental Science (EES)
within the Penn School of Arts & Sciences (SAS) working closely with
Professor Michael Mann and collaborators at Penn and other
institutions including the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research and the University of Minnesota.

Possible areas of research include but are not limited to: long-term
paleoclimate modeling including carbon cycle and ice sheet dynamics,
climate change impacts on extreme weather events, and modes of
low-frequency coupled ocean-atmosphere variability.

Applicants should submit a cover letter as well as a curriculum vitae,
a letter of reference from their dissertation advisor, and a
description of the applicant’s scholarly interests. Two more
references will be requested later in the process. First-year fellows
will receive a stipend of $65,000 and serve in a 12-month appointment,
beginning September 1, 2022 or January 1, 2023.  An allowance of up to
$1,500 will be provided to offset pre-approved, receipt-documented
relocation expenses, and reimbursement is available for up to $2,000
in travel to high-level conferences to present research (subject to
any applicable university Covid-19 travel restrictions). The
appointment also includes health insurance coverage for postdoctoral
fellows and immediate family members on an HMO plan (additional plans
are available but postdoctoral fellows would be responsible for the
difference in cost between the HMO plan and the upgraded plan).
Renewal for a second year is contingent upon performance and budgetary
considerations.

We are seeking fellows who apply a variety of disciplinary and
methodological approaches, and have completed a Ph.D. in a climate
science, oceanography, or atmospheric science within the last five
years.

Please include a letter of interest, CV, a letter of reference from
your dissertation advisor, and names of two references. Questions
about current lines of research or other academic aspects may be
directed to Dr. Michael E. Mann at mann@michaelmann.net.

The application deadline is August 31, 2022 for a January 1, 2023
start. However, decisions will be made on a rolling basis so
applications in advance of deadlines are encouraged.

The Department of Earth and Environmental Science is strongly
committed to Penn’s Action Plan for Faculty Diversity and Excellence
and to creating a more diverse faculty (for more information see:
https://urldefense.com/v3/__http://www.upenn.edu/almanac/volumes/v58/n02/diversityplan.html__;!!KGKeukY!3xtWo_Cw84RHOp7e2r1xFicOoR4Yfx_jgCER3nMsq6tqDt88bo3i9fi-nw-sNmjkJSePDHOcY3acHs0YkSjS$ .) The
University of Pennsylvania is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Minorities/Women/Individuals with disabilities/Protected Veterans are
encouraged to apply.

The University of Pennsylvania values diversity and seeks talented
students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. The University
of Pennsylvania is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer.  Candidates are considered for employment without regard to
race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion,
creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability,
veteran status or any other legally protected class. Questions or
concerns about this should be directed to the Executive Director of
the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs,
University of Pennsylvania, 421 Franklin Building, 3451 Walnut Street,
 Philadelphia, PA 19104-6205; or (215) 898-6993 (Voice) or (215)
898-7803 (TDD).

COVID-19 Vaccination Policy

COVID-19 vaccination is a requirement for all employees at the
University of Pennsylvania. New hires are expected to be fully
vaccinated before beginning work at the University. For more
information about Penn’s vaccine requirements and the use of Penn Open
Pass, visit the Penn COVID-19 Response website for the latest
information.
