---
layout: post
title: Postdoc positions in ocean, atmosphere and climate dynamics (New Haven, Connecticut)
subtitle: Yale University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, ENSO, AMOC, climate variability]
comments: false
---
One or two postdoctoral positions in Ocean, Atmosphere and Climate Dynamics will be available at Yale University, Department of Earth of Planetary Sciences, to work in Prof. Alexey Fedorov’s group (http://people.earth.yale.edu/profile/alexey-fedorov/about). General fields of research include ocean and atmosphere circulation, ocean-atmosphere interactions, the role of ocean in climate, climate variability and climate change. Particular topics of interest are (1) ENSO and tropical climate, (2) climate interconnections between ocean basins, (3) stability, variability, and climate impacts of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC). The work will involve climate modeling, analyses of observational and GCM data, and analytical approaches. A PhD in physical oceanography, atmospheric sciences or related disciplines is required. Previous experience with oceanic, atmospheric or climate GCMs is a plus. Funding is currently available up to three years. Successful candidates can begin their program at Yale in the Fall of 2022; later or earlier starting dates can also be discussed. Applicants should email his/her CV, a statement of research interests, one reprint or preprint, and the contacts of three referees to Prof. Fedorov (alexey.fedorov@yale.edu; subject: postdoctoral search). Shortlisted candidates will be contacted. Yale University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer. Yale values diversity among its students, staff, and faculty and strongly welcomes applications from women, persons with disabilities, protected veterans, and underrepresented minorities.
