---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position on tides in MOM6-SIS2 (Corvallis, Oregon)
subtitle: Oregon State University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, tides]
comments: false
---
*Summary:* (1.0 FTE; 12 months)

Applicants are invited for a post-doctoral position in the College of
Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Science at Oregon State University to
participate in a 3-year NOAA-sponsored project, "Enhancing the Realism
of MOM6-SIS2 Simulations with Ocean Tides." This project is one
component of a multi-agency effort, organized under the National Ocean
Partnership Program (NOPP), to study the dynamics and prediction of
internal waves in the global oceans. It is anticipated that there will
be synergistic collaboration among the fieldwork and modeling research
groups involved, and the incumbent will have ample opportunities to
interact with a wide range of experts in the NOPP effort.


The post-doc will spearhead efforts to improve the realism of
tide-resolving MOM6-based global ocean simulations driven by surface
wind stress, heating, and freshwater flux. This will involve developing
and validating resolution-dependent parameterizations for baroclinic
tidal dissipation, and studying the interactions of both resolved and
parameterized tides with other parameterizations in MOM6.


*Qualifications: *

Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Oceanography, Atmospheric Science, or a
related field, and a strong working knowledge of Fortran. Experience
with one or more of the following is highly desirable: subgrid-scale
parameterization, internal wave observations or models, flow-topography
interactions, or global ocean modeling.


*To Apply: *

Please send your CV and cover letter with the names and contact
information of three references to edward.d.zaron@oregonstate.edu.


*Open and close dates:*

Review of applications will begin October 15, 2022, and will continue
until the position is filled.


*Salary: *

The position provides a competitive stipend and health insurance for up
to three years, subject to satisfactory performance
(https://gradschool.oregonstate.edu/postdocs).


OSU commits to inclusive excellence by advancing equity and diversity in
all that we do. We are an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer,
and particularly encourage applications from members of historically
underrepresented racial/ethnic groups, women, individuals with
disabilities, veterans, LGBTQ community members, and others who
demonstrate the ability to help us achieve our vision of a diverse and
inclusive community.
