---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in machine learning for oceanography (Tallahassee, Florida)
subtitle: Florida State University
tags: [postdoc, USA, machine learning, numerical modelling]
comments: false
---
The Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies at Florida State
University seeks a highly motivated Postdoctoral Researcher interested
in solving Oceanography problems with state-of-the-art Scientific
Machine Learning methods.

    Requirements:

    - Ph.D. in Computational Science, Oceanography, Computer Science,
    Applied Mathematics, or related area.

    - Experience in building and training Deep Learning models.

    - Demonstrably effective communication and interpersonal skills.

    - Ability to work productively both independently and as part of an
    interdisciplinary team, balancing objectives involving research and
    code development.

    Desired:

    - Experience working with numerical ocean models.

    - Strong background in scientific machine learning and data analysis
    with Python and/or Julia.

    - Experience with Bayesian ML, GANs, GNNs, and/or other DL methods.

    - Experience with Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs).


    Documents:

    - CV showing relevant experience. Your resume must include information
    about your education, paid and nonpaid work experience related to
    this position, including job title, duration of employment
    (mm/yy-mm/yy), duties, and accomplishments.

    - Summary of the doctoral dissertation and/or past research experience.

    - Statement of research interest.

    - Contact information of three references.


    Duties:

As a Postdoctoral Researcher in Machine Learning/Computational Science,
you will perform the following duties:

    - Perform high-quality research in machine learning methods applied to
    oceanography.

    - Publish the obtained results in refereed journals.

    - Present new findings at national and international conferences.

    - Prepare and submit proposals to government agencies like the Office
    of Naval Research, the National Science Foundation, the National
    Oceanic and Atmospheric Association, and the National Aeronautics
    and Space Administration to obtain external funding.


Specific research topics currently being worked on by our group are:

    - Improve data assimilation in ocean models with machine learning.

    - Use machine learning for accurate and efficient representation of
    submesoscales ocean processes, including frontogenesis in the
    surface layer, topographic wakes, and instabilities of mesoscale
    eddies and meanders.

    - Improve existing short-to-medium and long-range operational
    forecasts of the Gulf of Mexico dynamics through enhanced modeling
    techniques, assimilation of near-real-time data, and machine
    learning-based prediction tools to increase safety in offshore
    energy industry operations, support fisheries research and inform
    stock assessment, and advance hurricane forecasting capabilities


Salary:

$48,000 - $58,000


Location:

Florida State University. Tallahassee, Florida, United States.


One of the nation's elite research universities, Florida State
University preserves, expands, and disseminates knowledge in the
sciences, technology, arts, humanities, and professions while embracing
a philosophy of learning rooted in the traditions of the liberal arts
and critical thinking. Founded in 1851, Florida State University is the
oldest continuous site of higher education in Florida. FSU is a
tradition-based community that fosters research, encourages creativity,
and embraces diversity. At FSU, there?s the excitement of being part of
a vibrant academic and professional community, surrounded by people
whose ideas are shaping tomorrow?s news!


COAPS is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to
sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, race, color, religion,
national origin, disability, protected veteran status, age, or any other
characteristic protected by law.


    Appointment type

OPS/temporary job. One-year appointments with the possibility of renewal
for up to three years based upon satisfactory job performance.


    Benefits

A career with Florida State University provides employees with a
comprehensive benefits package.


    How to Apply

Applications will be accepted until the position is filled.

Please send your documents to Dr. Olmo Zavala Romero at
ozavala@coaps.fsu.edu <mailto:ozavala@coaps.fsu.edu>*
