---
layout: post
title: Postdoc fellowship in oceanography and climate (Providence, Rhode Island)
subtitle: Brown University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, observations, climate change]
comments: false
---
The Department of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences <https://deeps.brown.edu/> at Brown University invites applications for our Doherty Postdoctoral Fellowship in Oceanography <https://deeps.brown.edu/about/jobs>. This position stimulates research on the role of the ocean in the climate system and the impacts of climatic change on the ocean. We seek qualified applicants investigating oceanographic processes at any timescale, from geological to the future. Successful applicants will conduct independent research in association with one or more faculty in the University.  Communication with potential Brown advisors prior to submitting an application is therefore required, and the potential for collaboration will be considered in selection for the award. More information about faculty research programs in ocean science at Brown can be found here <https://deeps.brown.edu/research/oceans-ice-atmospheres>.

Diversity, equity and inclusion are integral to the mission of the Department and Brown University. Accordingly, the Department seeks qualified candidates who can contribute to racial and gender equity, diversity, and inclusion through their research and scholarship. As an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers qualified applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, religion, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Women, members of historically underrepresented groups, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.

This two-year position is open to recent doctorates in any relevant field of study, including oceanic and atmospheric sciences, geology, physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics, and engineering. A doctoral degree is required at the time of appointment.  Applications are due by Dec. 1, 2022 and we anticipate the position will begin on July 1, 2023. To apply, applicants should upload a cover letter, CV, contact information for three references, and a 2-page statement of research interests here <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfTnNgHRBIxO0ihtO679fxkLZOIrUkXZJ9d6IC63IR9ybaYyA/viewform>.
