---
layout: post
title: PhD position in modelling the Greenland ice sheet (Hamburg, Germany)
subtitle: Max Planck Institute for Meteorology (MPI-M)
tags: [PhD, Germany, numerical modelling, Greenland, ice sheets, climate change]
comments: false
---
We are searching for a PhD student to investigate the fate of the
Greenland ice sheet in a changing climate using a comprehensive
coupled model system.

deadline for application is 23.1.2022

Best regards
Marie Kapsch and Uwe Mikolajewicz

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The Max Planck Institute for Meteorology (MPI-M), a multidisciplinary
centre for climate and Earth system research located in Hamburg,
Germany, invites applications for 3 PhD positions.

The successful candidates will become a member of the International
Max Planck Research School on Earth System Modelling (IMPRS-ESM). Our
school offers prime research facilities, advanced academic training in
the Earth system sciences and modelling, a structured supervision
programme and funded PhD positions (3 years).
https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://mpimet.mpg.de/en/science/imprs-esm/how-to-apply__;!!KGKeukY!nCwnFV-Vp0jinYW9n8B_XykfbhPr4M9XjvBZokATQTCJdOyaotb7mdA_C6CI0AR9XYk$

For detailed information on these positions please visit:
https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://mpimet.mpg.de/en/science/imprs-esm/how-to-apply/potential-supervisors-/-topics__;!!KGKeukY!nCwnFV-Vp0jinYW9n8B_XykfbhPr4M9XjvBZokATQTCJdOyaotb7mdA_C6CIT613Ynk$

Please note topic 2:
Is the mass loss of the Greenland ice sheet reversible?

Due to increasing temperatures in the last decades, the Greenland ice
sheet has lost a significant amount of mass. Recent studies have shown
that with an ongoing warming, the Greenland ice sheet is likely to
continue to lose mass and might reach a tipping point beyond which the
ice sheet will not be able to regrow, even if atmospheric greenhouse
gas concentrations would be lowered to preindustrial values again.
While this has been studied with simple models before, a new developed
comprehensive atmosphere-ocean-ice sheet-vegetation-solid earth model
will be used here, allowing for a more realistic description of
feedbacks between the Greenland ice sheet and other compartments of
the climate system, including the atmosphere, ocean and solid earth.

In this PhD project the stability of the Greenland ice sheet will be
studied in the coupled climate-ice sheet-solid earth model
MPI-ESM-mPISM-VILMA, developed by the ocean-physics group as part of
the project PalMod. The student will perform model simulations under
changing climate conditions and investigate if and when the Greenland
ice sheet crosses a tipping point. The goal is to explore whether the
Greenland ice sheet could potentially return to its present state if
temperature trends would reverse or whether the ice sheet reaches a
new stable state that differs from the present, hence, exhibits
multiple steady states including hysteresis behavior. The work will
contribute to a better understanding of the physical processes and
feedbacks between the Greenland ice sheet and other compartments of
the climate system.
