---
layout: post
title: Early career research fellowship in ocean/atmosphere/earth sciences (Mānoa, Hawaii)
subtitle: University of Hawaii at Mānoa
tags: [fellowship, USA, physical oceanography, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology (SOEST) is accepting
applications for the 2023 SOEST Early Career Research Fellowship Program!

Details about the position can be found at the link:

https://www.schooljobs.com/careers/hawaiiedu/jobs/4024095-0/asst-researcher-11-mo-pos84552t-and-84566t


This advertisement is for 11-month, non-tenure-track faculty positions for
the 2023 SOEST Early Career Research Fellowship Program. These one-year,
non-tenurable, faculty positions may be renewed for a second year, and will
begin in 2023 or as mutually agreed.  SOEST is seeking scientists and
engineers that have completed their PhD within the last 5 years and have
demonstrated outstanding research abilities in any of the following
disciplines: Oceanography, Earth Science, Atmospheric Science, Meteorology,
Planetary and Materials Science; Marine Biology; Marine Biotechnology,
Renewable Energy and related technologies; Ocean and Resources Engineering;
Political Ecology; or Community Engagement/Extension Principles. This
program is designed to allow selectees to develop and pursue research and
teaching topics upon which you can build a future academic career. Join a
broad community committed to fostering your independent career growth in
research, teaching, and scholarship. The number of positions and employment
following the first year are subject to availability of funds.  Salary is
$100,000 - $120,000 plus research support of $15,000 per year.

Please share this widely with your networks.

Through this position, we are seeking early career applicants (completed
their PhD within the last 5 years) with demonstrated excellence in research
and commitment to collaboration and inclusivity. These one-year,
non-tenurable, faculty positions may be renewed for a second year, and will
begin in 2023 or as mutually agreed. This program is designed to allow
selectees to develop and pursue research and teaching topics upon which
they can build a future academic career.
