---
layout: post
title: Professor position in marine acoustics (Rimouski, Canada)
subtitle: Université du Québec à Rimouski (UQAR), Institut des sciences de la mer de Rimouski (ISMER)
tags: [tenure, Canada, observations, marine acoustics]
comments: false
---
The Institut des sciences de la mer de Rimouski (ISMER) of the
Université du Québec à Rimouski (UQAR), one of Canada's leading academic
marine science research institutes, is seeking a new professor of marine
acoustics (tenure-track position).

The selected candidate must be specialized in marine acoustics. The
areas of expertise sought are underwater soundscape, impact of
anthropogenic noise on marine environments, bioacoustics, measurements
of atmospheric and surface conditions by underwater ambient noise,
active acoustics, detection of the physical internal structure of the
ocean by inverse tomography, acoustics as an observation tool for the
marine environment. The selected candidate is expected to develop a
unique and original expertise of research, and collaborate with
researchers at ISMER and from other departments within UQAR. The
selected candidate will participate in the MSc, PhD and DESS
(Specialized Graduate Diploma) programs in Oceanography through the
supervision of graduate students and teaching. The working language is
French.

At the time of hiring, the chosen person must have a doctorate in a
relevant discipline (oceanography, engineering, mathematics, or related
discipline), at least one year of postdoctoral experience and a solid
research record. Application documents must include a motivation letter,
a CV including research and student training experiences, and the name
and contact details of three referees. Evaluation of applications will
begin on May 15, 2023 and will continue until the position is filled.

All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and
permanent residents will be given priority. We subscribe to an equal
access program and our community advocates the values of equity,
diversity and inclusion, and we put in place accommodation measures as
needed. We strongly encourage women, people with disabilities, members
of visible and ethnic minorities, Aboriginal peoples, and members of
LGBTQ2+ communities to apply. UQAR recognizes the effects that career
interruptions can have on the assessment of the candidate's research
achievements. If applicable, the candidates are invited to explain the
situation in their application.

Send application to: presid-assemblee_ismer@uqar.ca

Job announcement:
https://www.uqar.ca/universite/a-propos-de-l-uqar/emplois-a-l-uqar/professeure-ou-un-professeur-regulier-en-oceanographie-biologique-avec-specialisation-en-ecologie-du-plancton-professor-of-biological-oceanography-with-specialization-in-plankton-ecology
