---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Greenland meltwater storage (Delft, Netherlands)
subtitle: Delft University of Technology
tags: [PhD, Netherlands, satellite observations, sea level rise, Greenland]
comments: false
---
Faculty: Civil Engineering and Geosciences (CEG)

Duration of contract: 4 years

Hours per week: 36-40

Salary range: EUR 2770 to EUR 3539 per month gross

Job description:

Nowadays, satellite gravimetry is one of the primary tools to study the
mass re-distribution in different Earth’s system compartments, including
ice sheets. The PhD candidate will be engaged in a further development of
techniques for processing the data from satellite gravimetry missions, such
as GRACE and GRACE Follow-On. It is proposed to directly invert the level-2
data product (monthly sets of spherical harmonic coefficients) into global
sets of mass anomalies (the so-called "mascons"). Furthermore, the PhD
candidate will focus on an extraction of the signal associated with
meltwater accumulation within the Greenland Ice Sheet (GrIS). The
successfully completed project will lead to better understanding the
behaviour of the GrIS, its response to the foreseen climate changes,
and its potential contribution to the future sea level rise.

The project will be executed at the Dept. of Geoscience and Remote Sensing
at TU Delft (the Netherlands), in a collaboration with Dr. P. Ditmar, Dr.
B. Wouters, prof. R. Klees, and other department members. Furthermore,
there will be a close collaboration with prof. Michiel van den Broeke and
other colleagues from Institute for Marine and Atmospheric research Utrecht
(IMAU).

Requirements:

The PhD candidate must have a solid background in programming and math
(particularly, in statistical theory and the theory of inverse problems).
It will also be essential to have a good command of English language, as
well as very good skills in oral and written communications.

Additional assets are: Knowledge of physical geodesy (including the
spherical harmonic expansion); familiarity with physical processes within
an ice sheet; knowledge of FORTRAN language and parallel programming using
the MPI library.

Information and application:

Are you interested in this vacancy? Please apply no later than on Sep. 17,
2023 via:

https://www.tudelft.nl/over-tu-delft/werken-bij-tu-delft/vacatures/details?jobId=13774

Please upload your: letter of motivation, detailed CV, list of
grades/transcripts (bachelor and master), contact information of two
references, and your master thesis (if already available). Please note that
we will not process applications sent by email and/or post.

If you would like more information about the selection procedure, please
contact
recruitment-citg@tudelft.nl. For more information about the PhD project,
please contact Dr. Pavel Ditmar (p.g.ditmar@tudelft.nl). For more
information
about the Dept. of Geoscience and Remote Sensing, please visit:

https://www.tudelft.nl/citg/over-faculteit/afdelingen/geoscience-remote-sensing
