---
layout: post
title: PhD positions in Earth system modelling (Hamburg, Germany)
subtitle: Max Planck Institute for Meteorology, Universität Hamburg
tags: [PhD, Germany, numerical modelling, climate]
comments: false
---
The International Max Planck Research School on Earth System Modelling (IMPRS-ESM), located in Hamburg, Germany, offers several PhD positions to outstanding students interested in interdisciplinary climate research.

 

The IMPRS-ESM is a joint program by the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology (MPI-M) and the Universität Hamburg (UHH). Our doctoral program offers structured supervision and ample opportunities for special scientific training. We strive to attract a diversity of talented women and men from all nationalities.

 

Our academic focus lies on the advancement of our understanding of processes and dynamics in the Earth system at different temporal and spatial scales as well as our prediction skills.

    You like studying complex environmental processes and dynamics?
    You have experience in working with numerical models of the Earth system or its components?
    You enjoy problem solving, numerical modelling, programming, working with large data sets, applying statistical methods, among other research strategies and tools?

Emphasizing the physical system, the School encompasses the broader field of Earth sciences, including economics and social sciences. Our program is open to applicants holding a Master’s degree (with written thesis) in physics, geophysical sciences (incl. meteorology and oceanography), ecology, mathematics, computer science, engineering, economics, or political science. Students currently still working on their MSc thesis are also encouraged to apply.

 

Please apply online through our website until 15 September 2023. The selection procedure includes an interview (end November / early December 2023). Doctoral candidates receive financial support of about 1,850 Euros/month for a period of three years. There are no tuition fees but a semester fee is charged by the university. Funding will be available starting March 2024.

 

For questions, please contact: office.imprs@mpimet.mpg.de

Application:       https://mpimet.mpg.de/en/career/imprs-esm/application

 

Visit us at:          https://mpimet.mpg.de/en/career/imprs-esm 
