---
layout: post
title: PhD position in rainfall changes over the Southern Ocean (Cambridge, UK)
subtitle: British Antarctic Survey
tags: [PhD, UK, numerical modelling, observations, Southern Ocean, Antarctica]
comments: false
---
PhD studentship opportunity at the British Antarctic Survey on Future
changes to rainfall over Antarctica and the Southern Ocean, funded by GW4+,
which includes maintenance grant + University fees + research costs,
starting from 1st October 2024.

The successful student will use datasets such as CloudSat satellite data,
ERA5 atmospheric reanalysis, and station weather reports to quantify
present-day occurrences of rainfall for Antarctica and the Southern Ocean
and identify the main meteorological drivers associated with these events.
They will also assess the robustness of simulated precipitation for
Antarctica and the Southern Ocean in CMIP6 global climate models and
identify a subset of the most reliable models for making projections of
future changes in rainfall over these regions. The student will be hosted
at the British Antarctic Survey, Cambridge, UK, which is a world leading
polar research centre focused on Earth System Science. Additional
supervision will be from the School of Geographical Sciences, University of
Bristol. The student will learn about climate change, climate modelling,
satellite data, atmospheric processes, atmosphere-cryosphere interaction,
and analysis using Python. The training will be through short courses and
Summer Schools and through interactions with the supervising team who
together cover expertise in all these topics.

Further details can be found here:

https://www.bas.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Future-Changes-to-Rainfall.pdf

We seek an enthusiastic, self-motivated student with creative ideas and
strong interests in polar climate and variability. They must hold or expect
to gain at least an upper-second class undergraduate degree in either
atmospheric, oceanic, earth sciences, applied mathematics, computer
science, engineering, physics, statistics or a related field. Programming
experience and written skills are advantageous.

The closing date for applications is 9 January 2024. To submit an
application, please send your CV, personal statement, degree transcripts,
degree certificates and contact details of two academic referees directly
to the lead supervisor Dr Andrew Orr (anmcr@bas.ac.uk).

For further enquiries please email Dr Andrew Orr: anmcr@bas.ac.uk
