---
layout: post
title: PhD position in surface melting of Antarctic ice shelves (Cambridge, UK)
subtitle: British Antarctic Survey
tags: [PhD, UK, numerical modelling, satellite observations, ice sheet, Antarctica, sea level rise]
comments: false
---
PhD studentship opportunity at the British Antarctic Survey on The impact
of meteorological extremes on surface melting of Antarctic’s ice shelves,
funded by C-CLEAR, which includes maintenance grant + University fees +
research costs, starting from 1st October 2024.

The successful student will use satellite imagery, high-resolution
atmospheric model simulations, and atmospheric reanalysis datasets to
investigate the vulnerability of Antarctic ice shelves to surface melting
induced by extreme weather events, which can increase the likelihood of
their collapse. The student will be hosted at the British Antarctic Survey,
Cambridge, UK, which is a world leading polar research centre focused on
Earth System Science. Additional supervision will be from the Scott Polar
Research Institute, Cambridge University. You will be guided through the
process of preparing your results for publication and will have the
opportunity to present your research at national/international conferences.
The student will learn about regional climate modelling, satellite images,
atmospheric processes, atmosphere-ice shelf interactions, and analysis
using Python. The training will be through short courses and Summer Schools
and through interactions with the supervising team who together cover
expertise in all these topics.

Further details can be found here:

https://nercdtp.esc.cam.ac.uk/projects/ce528-impact-meteorological-extremes-surface-melting-antarcticas-ice-shelves-lead

We seek an enthusiastic, self-motivated student with creative ideas and
strong interests in polar climate and variability. They must hold or expect
to gain at least an upper-second class undergraduate degree in either
atmospheric, oceanic, earth sciences, applied mathematics, computer
science, engineering, physics, statistics or a related field. Programming
experience and written skills are advantageous.

The closing date for applications is 5 January 2024. Details of how to
apply can be found here:

https://nercdtp.esc.cam.ac.uk/StaffDirectory/british-antarctic-survey-supervisors

For further enquiries please email Dr Andrew Orr: anmcr@bas.ac.uk
