---
layout: post
title: PhD position in impacts of alkalinity enhancement on marine calcifiers (Boston, Massachusetts)
subtitle: Northeastern University, Marine Science Center
tags: [PhD, USA, numerical modelling, biogeochemistry, carbon dioxide removal]
comments: false
---
The Ries Lab (https://rieslab.sites.northeastern.edu/) in the Department of Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern University seeks a graduate student with training in geochemistry to contribute to federally funded research on the impact of alkalinity enhancement on calcareous biomineralization, to begin summer/fall 2024. Research will include employing a multi-disciplinary approach to investigating the impact of seawater alkalinity on shell production, mineralogy, elemental chemistry, structure, function, and calcifying fluid chemistry of marine calcifiers. The selected graduate student will receive interdisciplinary training in global change research, carbonate biogeochemistry, invertebrate biomineralization, isotope geochemistry, and experimental design. Opportunities will also exist for meaningful engagement with industry partners. The graduate student will be based at Northeastern University's Marine Science Center, located on the shores of Massachusetts Bay on the Nahant tombolo (13 miles north of downtown Boston). The renovated MSC features a state-of-the-art flow through seawater facility, direct access to classic New England rocky shore intertidal study sites, and an in-house SCUBA program. Highly motivated, creative, and discovery-oriented individuals with excellent writing and analytical skills and training are encouraged to apply. The successful applicant will have majored in the Earth sciences and received advanced training in geochemistry. Interested individuals should apply to Northeastern's Department of Marine and Environmental Sciences Ph.D. program at https://enroll.northeastern.edu/apply/. Applications will be accepted through December 1, 2023, and early submission is strongly encouraged.  Please direct specific inquiries to Prof. Justin Ries (j.ries@northeastern.edu).
