---
layout: post
title: PhD position on Arctic fresh water and ocean circulation (Bremerhaven, Germany)
subtitle: Alfred Wegener Institute
tags: [PhD, Germany, observations, numerical modelling, Arctic Ocean, climate change]
comments: false
---
PhD Position “Large Scale Changes in Arctic Fresh Water and Upper Ocean
circulation (CIAO)” (m/f/d)

Background

The Arctic is important for global change particularly as sea ice declines and
glacial meltwater and river inputs change. However, Arctic observations are
still limited, and multiple datasets are required to comprehend the large-scale
Arctic Ocean–sea ice–atmosphere system.


By examining various datasets from hydrography, sea surface height, surface
winds and runoff, this project is to further our understanding of how ocean
circulation and freshwater pathways change. Using output from numerical models
will extend the analysis in space and time and help us understand the context of
glacial meltwater and other processes at the Arctic boundary. It will also shed
light on their potential effects on lower latitudes.

Tasks

     Data processing and synthesis, including statistical techniques (e.g.,
optimal interpolation)
     Analysis of observations and model output using oceanographic theory
     Combining different data products to obtain ocean velocity
     Using output from other research to extend the analysis beyond the Arctic as
well as temporally
     Presenting the results at conferences and publishing in scientific journals



Requirements

     A good Master’s degree or the equivalent in physical oceanography or
environmental science
     A good understanding of ocean dynamics and observation
     Willingness to join oceanographic research expeditions and collaborate with
colleagues
     Good knowledge of at least one high-level programming language (e.g.,
MATLAB, Python)
     Experience in marine field work and in using reanalysis or model products
are assets
     Good communication skills in English, both oral and written



Further Information

Please contact Benjamin Rabe (Benjamin.Rabe@awi.de; +49(471)4831-2403) and
Claudia Wekerle (Claudia.Wekerle@awi.de; +49(471)4831-1813) for further
information.

This position is limited to 3 years. The salary will be paid in accordance with
the Collective Agreement for the Public Service of the Federation (Tarifvertrag
des öffentlichen Dienstes, TVöD Bund), up to salary level 13 (66%). The place of
employment will be Bremerhaven.

All doctoral candidates will be members of AWI's postgraduate program POLMAR or
another graduate school and thus benefit from a comprehensive training program
and extensive support measures.

The AWI is characterised by

     our scientific success - excellent research
     collaboration and cooperation - intra-institute, national and international,
interdisciplinary
     opportunities to develop – on the job and towards other positions
     an international environment – everyday contacts with people from all over
the world
     flexible working hours and the possibility of mobile working up to 50% of
regular working hours
     Health promotion and company fitness with qualitrain
     support services and a culture of reconciling work and family
     Occupational pension provision (VBL)
     Jobticket



Equal opportunities are an integral part of our personnel policy. The AWI aims
to increase the number of employees who are women, and therefore strongly
encourages qualified women to apply.

Applicants with disabilities will be given preference when equal qualifications
are present.

The AWI fosters the compatibility of work and family in various ways and has
received a number of awards as a result of this engagement.

We look forward to your application!

Please submit your application, including (1) a letter of motivation, (2) a CV
and copies of relevant certificates (master’s degree; training), (3) two letters
of recommendation or the contact information of two references, by September
10th, 2023. Electronic applications only.
Interviews will take place between 04th and 06th October 2023.

Reference number: 23/130/G/INSPIRES-b
