---
layout: post
title: Instructor position in marine conservation / oceanography (Dauphin Island, Alabama)
subtitle: University of Reading
tags: [teaching, USA, marine conservation]
comments: false
---
The Dauphin Island Sea Lab (DISL) invites applications for a 12-month
nontenure track faculty position as an Instructor of Marine Sciences. The
successful applicant will teach 6 courses annually, pursue scholarly
activity as appropriate, participate in community outreach, and perform
institutional service.

Candidates should have a Ph.D. at the time of appointment and be qualified
to teach undergraduate courses in marine biology, oceanography, and
conservation. There are opportunities to develop courses in the candidate's
area of expertise. Postdoctoral experience and/or teaching experience are
preferred.

 The successful candidate will be expected to:

   - Teach in the DISL summer undergraduate program and spring Seamester (
   https://www.disl.org/univ-prog/undergrad)
   - Advise and mentor undergraduate students
   - Assist with professional development activities for students
   - Perform community outreach and interface with the Alabama Aquarium

The Dauphin Island Sea Lab (http://www.disl.org) is the administrative home
for Alabama's Marine Science Education Consortium, consisting of 22
colleges and universities. The facility is located on Dauphin Island, a
barrier island on the Alabama coast in the northern Gulf of Mexico with 14
faculty members and ~40 graduate students in residence. In addition to
offering over 25 courses for undergraduates in the summer, the Sea Lab
hosts a public aquarium that is focused on the habitats and ecosystems of
the northern Gulf of Mexico region, and is home to the K-12 Discovery Hall
Program.

Candidates should send an application letter, curriculum vitae, teaching
philosophy statement (maximum three pages), and the names and contact
information of three references to Dr. Lee Smee, University Programs Chair,
Dauphin Island Sea Lab, 101 Bienville Blvd., Dauphin Island, AL, 36528.
Electronic applications are preferred and should be emailed to
instructorsearch@disl.edu. Questions about the search should be addressed
to lsmee@disl.edu. Review of applications will begin September 30 and the
position will remain open until filled.

For more information about the position, please visit www.disl.edu.

The Dauphin Island Sea Lab is an equal opportunity employer and does not
discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, age, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran
status, or any other characteristic protected by law. Candidates from
underrepresented groups are especially encouraged to apply.
