---
layout: post
title: Assistant/associate professor in earth system modelling (New Haven, Connecticut)
subtitle: Yale University
tags: [tenure, USA, numerical modelling, climate change]
comments: false
---
Assistant/Associate Professor, Earth System Modeling, Yale University

The Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences (EPS) at Yale University invites applications for a tenure-track appointment in the broadly defined area of Earth system modeling. A start date of July 2024 or later is expected for this position. We anticipate an appointment at the Assistant Professor level, but exceptional candidates at the Associate Professor level (with tenure) will also be considered. Examples of relevant areas include (but are not limited to) modeling of large-scale dynamics and feedbacks among physical, chemical, and biological processes at Earth's surface, in the ocean, and the atmosphere; modeling the past evolution of Earth?s climate; coupling of biogeochemical cycling and climate dynamics in the past and present; integrating observations into Earth system models; and building predictive modeling frameworks for forecasting future global change and its impact on climate adaptation, mitigation, and solutions. We are interested in candidates who apply modeling approaches to key scientific questions related to the Earth as a system and its evolution through time.

We seek candidates who will develop outstanding research programs, who have strong prospects for exceptional scholarly impact and teaching excellence, and who will enhance the existing strengths of the Department and University. The successful applicant will develop and implement an independent, externally-funded research program, advise students, facilitate interdisciplinary research, and teach courses in Earth system science and related areas.

The Yale EPS Department is committed to fairness, equity, and inclusion of all people from all backgrounds. We value diversity among our students, staff, and faculty and strongly welcome applications from women, persons with disabilities, protected veterans, and underrepresented minorities. Yale University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer.

Applicants should submit (1) a letter of application, (2) a curriculum vitae including a full list of publications, (3) a statement of research interests, and (4) a statement of interests in teaching, mentoring, and broader impacts. Broader impacts may include, for example, public education and outreach activities, impacts on diversity, equity, and inclusion, and other positive societal benefits. Applicants at the Assistant Professor level should arrange for three confidential letters of recommendation to be uploaded. Candidates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree at the time of hire. Applications should be submitted online at https://apply.interfolio.com/133131. Those that arrive before November 5, 2023 will receive full consideration. For information regarding the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, visit our web site at http://earth.yale.edu. Questions regarding the application process can be addressed to Rebecca Pocock, Chair's Assistant (rebecca.pocock@yale.edu) or Professor Alexey Fedorov (alexey.fedorov@yale.edu).
