---
layout: post
title: Head of Climate Unit at SMHI (Norrköping, Sweden)
subtitle: Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute (SMHI)
tags: [permanent, Sweden, climate modelling, management]
comments: false
---
Head of Climate Unit, Research and Development Department at the Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute (SMHI)

The R&D Department of the Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute comprises four units conducting research and development in climate science, oceanography, hydrology and meteorology respectively. Most of the department’s activities take place within externally funded national and international projects, but some other projects are financed directly by SMHI. The department has expanded over several years and currently has about 135 employees. Key research areas for the 30-strong Climate R&D Unit are global and regional climate modeling,
understanding of the climate system and of climate processes. The research supports studies on climate impact and climate change.

We are looking for an experienced scientific leader with the capacity to further develop the unit's scientific orientation and scope. You will ensure that the unit's work contributes to the realization of SMHI's goals, strategies and societal remits. You will also play an important part in the development of the department as a whole, through your membership of the department's
management team.

The successful candidate must have a broad background within climate research, with a solid understanding of different stakeholders needs for scientific information to underpin their decision-making. You must have basic knowledge of Swedish or another Scandinavian language.

Want to know more? Read more about the Climate R&D unit and the position

at: https://www.smhi.se/en/research/research-departments/climate-research-at-the-rossby-centre

and

https://web103.reachmee.com/ext/I011/1056/job?site=6&lang=SE&validator=c8d2e684ac333a98cbca2724c6422cf2&job_id=504


Closing date: August 31 2023

