---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Baltic Sea circulation (Stockholm, Sweden)
subtitle: Department of Meteorology, Stockholm University (MISU)
tags: [PhD, Sweden, numerical modelling, observations, coastal ocean, Baltic Sea]
comments: false
---
We have a PhD position available at the Department of Meteorology, Stockholm University (MISU), Sweden. This PhD project will use fluid dynamics theory, statistical analysis tools as well as numerical modelling to study the near-shore circulation in the Baltic Sea and its open-sea and meteorological drivers (estuarine circulation in bays and coves subject to runoff from land, circulation on the shelf, wave-induced transport, wave modes in small closed basins, co-analysis of different observational data, idealized numerical modelling). The student will have also opportunity to develop an observational module using coastal surface drifters developed in my group. The PhD student will collaborate with PhD students and faculty in an interdisciplinary graduate school on quantifying the impacts of coastal circulation impacts on the marine ecosystem and the carbon cycle.

This position is part of the interdisciplinary graduate school Perspectives on climate change in coastal seas at The Baltic Sea Centre. It is directed to students who are interested in pursuing a doctoral degree in marine and environmental sciences addressing the role of the coastal zone in climate feedbacks. You will join a network of students and scientists in natural and social sciences at Stockholm University who explore coastal zones in the Baltic Sea. Read more at su.se/balticseacentre/graduateschool.

The PhD position closes for applications *November 3, 2023*. For more information about the required qualifications and how to apply, see:

https://www.su.se/english/about-the-university/work-at-su/available-jobs/phd-student-positions-1.507588?rmpage=job&rmjob=21650&rmlang=UK

Please observe the general and specific entry requirements (that must be fulfilled before admission to the third-cycle programme, not at the time of the application). Only a person who will be or has already been admitted to a third-cycle programme may be appointed to a doctoral studentship (employment). Please note that the application must include a research proposal on the topic of the advertised position as a part of the evaluation of the candidate's qualifications for the position.
