---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position on sea level predictability and machine learning (Davis, California)
subtitle: University of California, Davis
tags: [postdoc, USA, sea level, satellite observations, machine learning]
comments: false
---
The Computer Science department at the University of California (UC), Davis
invites applications to research the physical ocean processes and their
interactions that contribute to sea level variability on subseasonal to
decadal timescales. We will apply and develop data mining and sparse data
inference methodologies to sea-level data. The machine learning applied
will be targeted at gaining new knowledge and harnessing a network?s
potential as a universal function approximator to also learn more about
emergent drivers of variability. The larger objective of this study is to
improve predictions of sea level variability originating from a seasonal to
multidecadal prediction system developed at GFDL (SPEAR), as well as
general climate models, by providing Process Oriented Diagnostics (POD) to
the MDTF framework. The PODs address both the initial value and model error
components of sea level prediction uncertainty.

The position reports to Professor Maike Sonnewald at UC Davis and will
collaborate with Aparna Radhakrishnan at Princeton University, John
Krasting, Modeling Systems Division, and selected HPC and Scientific staff
at the NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory as well as Matt Newman at
the NOAA Physical Sciences Laboratory. The appointment will be through the
UC Davis Computer Science Department and compensated accordingly. The
appointment is for one year and may be renewed up to three years pending
satisfactory performance.

A Ph.D. is required in a related field, for example, oceanography, physics,
data science, or computer science. Ideal applicants will have experience
with some combination of:

   - Scientific computer programming and realistic general circulation models
   - Physical oceanography using models, theory, observations, or some
   combination
   - Advanced statistics, supervised and unsupervised machine learning

Note that the position does not require expertise in all of the above.
Strong academic writing and communication skills in English are required.

Salary is competitive and full employee benefits are offered following
University guidelines and candidate experience.

How to Apply

Applicants should submit a CV, contact information for three references,
and a cover letter (2 pages max) describing their areas of expertise and
interest (tips
<https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-write-convincing-cover-letter-your-phd-postdoc-ziaei-ph-d-/>
for unfamiliar candidates). A statement on commitment to diversity is
optional. References may be contacted for the candidates who make the
shortlist for this position. Apply by submitting the online form:
https://tinyurl.com/ccogPostdoc

and send the CV, cover letter to: compClimateOcean@gmail.com

Screening of applications will begin October 11th 2023 and continue until
the position is filled. This position is subject to the University's
background check policy. For questions contact sonnewald@ucdavis.edu.


*Commitment to Diversity*

UC Davis ranks among the Forbes best employers for Women and Diversity
overall. We believe that it is vital to cultivate an environment that
fosters the success of diverse individuals and that diversity, equity, and
inclusion are fundamental to the success of our education and research
mission. This commitment to diversity informs our efforts in recruitment
and hiring as we actively seek colleagues of exceptional ability who
represent a broad range of viewpoints, experiences, and value systems, and
who share UC Davis' dedication to excellence.

UC Davis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and all
qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected
veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.

