---
layout: post
title: Physical Scientist at NOAA Office of Ocean Exploration (Silver Spring, Maryland)
subtitle: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
tags: [USA, observations, field campaigns, management]
comments: false
---
This position (https://www.usajobs.gov/job/714098900) is located in the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Office of Oceanic
and Atmospheric Research (OAR), The Office of Ocean Exploration and
Research (OER) with 1 vacancy in Silver Spring, MD or Durham, NH.

As a Physical Scientist, you will perform the following duties.

- Oversee expedition planning lifecycle from initial conception to
completion. Plan and lead sea-going missions utilizing telepresence, ocean
mapping sonars, remotely operated vehicles (ROV), human occupied vehicles
(HOV), autonomous technologies, and/or novel technologies including
logistical planning and conducting operational evaluations of new
technologies and concepts of operation. Coordinate and collaborate with
internal/external partners and customers to refine project requirements,
and establish priorities and achievable outcomes.

- Apply project management principles, techniques and tools to manage and
track projects to meet requirements. Provide project management support for
ocean exploration projects and expeditions. Develop and ensure completion
of expedition reporting and summary products. Review technical procedures
and evaluate scientific data integrity and quality. Utilize geospatial
software and geographic information systems (GIS) databases to analyze and
collect GIS data.

- Assess and develop resolutions for ocean mapping and exploration
challenges. Stay informed on regulations and guidelines as well as new
program requirements and ocean resource management decisions. Make
recommendations to leadership for future technology improvements, new data
products, and improvements to operations.
