---
layout: post
title: Professor position in plankton ecology (Rimouski, Canada)
subtitle: Université du Québec à Rimouski (UQAR), Institut des sciences de la mer de Rimouski (ISMER)
tags: [tenure, Canada, marine ecosystems, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
The Institut des sciences de la mer de Rimouski (ISMER) of the
Université du Québec à Rimouski (UQAR), one of Canada's leading academic
marine science research institutes, is seeking a new regular professor
of biological oceanography with a specialization in plankton ecology
(tenure-track position).

The selected candidate must be specialized in ecology of the microbial
loop, phytoplankton ecology, zooplankton ecology, or trophic ecology.
The areas of expertise sought are microbiology, lower food webs,
particulate matter flow, carbon export, and environment and climate
change. The selected candidate is expected to develop a unique and
original expertise of research, and collaborate with researchers at
ISMER and from other departments within UQAR. The selected candidate
will participate in the MSc, PhD and DESS (Specialized Graduate Diploma)
programs in Oceanography through the supervision of graduate students
and teaching. The working language is French.

At the time of hiring, the chosen person must have a doctorate in a
relevant discipline (oceanography, marine biology, marine ecology,
microbiology, or related discipline), at least one year of postdoctoral
experience and a solid research record. Application documents must
include a motivation letter, a CV including research and student
training experiences, and the name and contact details of three
referees. Evaluation of applications will begin on May 15, 2023 and will
continue until the position is filled.

All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and
permanent residents will be given priority. We subscribe to an equal
access program and our community advocates the values of equity,
diversity and inclusion, and we put in place accommodation measures as
needed. We strongly encourage women, people with disabilities, members
of visible and ethnic minorities, Aboriginal peoples, and members of
LGBTQ2+ communities to apply. UQAR recognizes the effects that career
interruptions can have on the assessment of the candidate's research
achievements. If applicable, the candidates are invited to explain the
situation in their application.

Send application to: presid-assemblee_ismer@uqar.ca

Job announcement:
https://www.uqar.ca/universite/a-propos-de-l-uqar/emplois-a-l-uqar/professeure-ou-un-professeur-regulier-en-oceanographie-biologique-avec-specialisation-en-ecologie-du-plancton-professor-of-biological-oceanography-with-specialization-in-plankton-ecology
