---
layout: post
title: Professorship in physical oceanography (Bremen, Germany)
subtitle: University of Bremen
tags: [professorship, Germany, physical oceanography, climate]
comments: false
---
The University of Bremen is hiring a Professor in Physical Oceanography at
the salary level W3 (full professorship in Germany).  Applications due
September 12th.

Job description

The University of Bremen invites applications for a W3 professorship in the
area of 'Physical Oceanography' with a focus on the role of the ocean in
the climate system. We are looking for an internationally recognized person
to lead research and teaching in this field. The successful applicant
should cover broad interests in oceanography and contribute to synergies
between the existing research groups, especially at the Institute of
Environmental Physics (IUP), the MARUM Excellence Center for Marine
Environmental Science, its Cluster of Excellence 'The Ocean Floor : Earth's
Uncharted Interface', the Alfred-Wegener-Institute (AWI) in Bremerhaven and
further collaborating institutions within the U Bremen Research Alliance.

Teaching will include basic and advanced courses in the Bachelor's and
Master's of physics and interdisciplinary study programs, like the Master
in environmental physics, or the newly designed Bachelor in Natural
Sciences for a Sustainable Future. Engagement in further developing our
study programs is appreciated.

The Bremen Physical Oceanography group is internationally recognized for
studying climate-relevant processes and long-term circulation changes in
the ocean. The group has expertise in a wide range of observational methods
to study large- and mesoscale ocean circulation and small-scale processes
to better understand the role of the oceans in the changing Earth system.
The group holds observational resources for seagoing expeditions and moored
times series stations and maintains world-leading state-of-the-art labs for
helium and neon isotope measurements and transient trace gas analysis
(CFCs, SF6). The group is engaged in the collaborative research efforts of
MOSAiC, the DFG transregios TRR 172 Arctic Amplification (AC3) and TRR 181
Energy Transfers in Atmosphere and Ocean and the MARUM. The work of the
group complements the AWI in expertise.

The holder of this position will take the lead of this group. We are
seeking for candidates who will integrate one or more of the existing
research directions with their own research interests. Linking interior
ocean observations with remote sensing and in collaboration with the other
groups of the IUP (e.g. Surface Water and Ocean Topography mission) would
be appreciated.

Possible future fields of research include upper ocean processes, ocean-sea
ice and ice sheet interactions, ocean-atmosphere interaction, marine carbon
cycle and storage, oceanic overturning circulation, tracer oceanography,
biogeochemical processes and polar oceanography. We welcome interest to
maintain, advance and further develop the existing wide range of
multidisciplinary observational methods, including the use of autonomous
measurement platforms.
Requirements

*Prerequisites for employment are:*

   - An academic university degree in physics or closely related field.
   - An outstanding doctorate in physics, physical oceanography or a
   similar field.
   - An outstanding scientific qualification in observational physical
   oceanography with strong research competence in studies of physical
   processes in the ocean, proven by a habilitation or equivalent
   qualifications.
   - A track record of excellent internationally visible independent
   research and an international network.
   - Experience in the acquisition of third-party funding, in seagoing
   expeditions and the ability to acquire ship-time and lead expeditions.
   - For teaching, the pedagogical eligibility, teaching experience at a
   university, and the ability and willingness to teach in German and English
   are expected. An appropriate level of proficiency in both languages will be
   aimed at after an initial time of three years.
   - Engagement in the Master in Environmental Physics and the new
   international Bachelor in Natural Science for a Sustainable Future is
   appreciated.
   - Competencies with regard to the consideration of gender and diversity
   dimensions in research and teaching and in the role as a leader are
   expected.
   - Moreover, we expect cooperation in the academic self-administration
   and the committees of the university.

The promotion of young academics and the readiness for further education in
higher education are part of the extended range of tasks of the
professorship.
General hints

The appointment is based on ? 18 BremHG and ? 116 BremBG.

The University of Bremen offers a range of measures to support new
employees. This includes advice from the Welcome Center, childcare
facilities, dual career assistance and opportunities for professional
development, including language lessons. The aim of the University of
Bremen and Faculty 1 is to increase the proportion of women in science.
Women are, therefore, explicitly encouraged to apply. The university is
family-friendly, diverse and sees itself as an international university. We
therefore welcome all applicants regardless of gender, nationality, ethnic
and social origin, religion/belief, disability, age, sexual orientation and
identity.  Priority will be given to handicapped candidates if the
professional and personal qualification is equivalent.

Applications should be submitted in writing, enclosing a letter of
motivation, an academic curriculum vitae, degree certificates, and concepts
for research and teaching in the context of the professorship, by *September
12th, 2023*, quoting the *reference number P591/23*, to:

*Universit?t BremenFachbereich 01
Physik/ElektrotechnikFachbereichsverwaltungz. Hd. Frau Ohlmann
 Otto-Hahn-Allee28359 Bremen*

or preferably in electronic form (in a summarized PDF file) to the
following address: p591-23fb1.uni-bremen.de.

For more information regarding this Professorship please contact Prof. Dr.
Justus Notholt (+49 421-21862190).

The call is published:

https://www.uni-bremen.de/en/university/the-university-as-an-employer/job-vacancies-1/job/2666?cHash=d76c1293bf4b0b5879bb537ffa4fbbfd
