---
layout: post
title: Postdoc positions in coupled climate dynamics (Durham, North Carolina)
subtitle: Duke University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, air-sea interactions]
comments: false
---
The Climate Dynamics Lab at Duke University is seeking 1 or 2 Postdoctoral
Associates to work on coupled climate dynamics. The main goal of our lab is
to understand the role of air-sea coupling in global climate change and
variability by combining theory, observations, and climate modeling.
Potential research projects include but are not limited to: (1)
extratropical air-sea interactions related to atmospheric rivers, (2) ocean
inter-basin interactions among the Indian, Atlantic, and Pacific Oceans.
Each position will be awarded for 1 year with a flexible starting date and
extended by 1-2 more years contingent on satisfactory performance. A PhD in
physical oceanography, atmospheric science, or related fields is required.
Modeling experience with general circulation models, preferably CESM or
E3SM, is highly desirable.

Please apply at https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/24736. Applications
will be reviewed immediately, but the positions will remain open until
filled. For questions, please contact Prof. Shineng Hu at
shineng.hu@duke.edu.

Duke University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
committed to providing employment opportunity without regard to an
individual's age, color, disability, gender, gender expression, gender
identity, genetic information, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, or veteran status.

Duke aspires to create a community built on collaboration, innovation,
creativity, and belonging. Our collective success depends on the robust
exchange of ideas-an exchange that is best when the rich diversity of our
perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences flourishes. To achieve this
exchange, it is essential that all members of the community feel secure and
welcome, that the contributions of all individuals are respected, and that
all voices are heard. All members of our community have a responsibility to
uphold these values.
