---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in benthic and ocean biogeochemical modeling (Princeton, New Jersey)
subtitle: Princeton University
tags: [postdoc, USA, numerical modelling, biogeochemistry, carbon]
comments: false
---     
The Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Program at Princeton University, in
association with NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL), seeks
a postdoctoral research associate to work in the area of ocean and benthic
biogeochemical modeling and marine carbon dioxide removal (mCDR).

The seafloor serves as the only long-term storage of oceanic carbon, and
consideration of the exchanges between the water column and benthic
sediments is a major knowledge gap in understanding carbon cycling near
coasts and continental shelves, as well as the durability of proposed mCDR
solutions. This work will be conducted as part of a large and exciting
collaboration with researchers at Northeastern University, University of
Maryland, University of Maine, Rutgers University, and University of
Connecticut, and will focus on the role of benthic biogeochemical cycles
and benthic food web on two mCDR strategies: kelp aquaculture and cessation
of trawling. Work will consist of the development of a simple benthic
biogeochemical model that can be coupled to the Modular Ocean Model 6
(MOM6) and the Carbon, Ocean Biogeochemistry, and Lower Trophics (COBALT)
models, and experiments in a range of domains (1-dimensional to global)
assessing the benthic-pelagic coupling on the ocean carbon cycle. The
incumbent will work with an active group at Princeton and GFDL studying the
connections between biogeochemistry, ecosystems, and climate (
https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/marine-ecosystems/).

A Ph.D. is required in either oceanography, biogeochemistry, computational
earth system science, or related field. Candidates with interest in or
experience in ocean biogeochemical modeling, particularly model
development, are especially encouraged to apply. Initial appointment is for
one year with the possibility of renewal for one additional year subject to
satisfactory performance and funding.

Complete applications, including a cover letter, CV with a list of
publications, a statement of research interests (no more than 2 pages
including references), and contact information of 3 references should be
submitted by September 5, 2023 11:59 EST for full consideration, though
evaluation will be ongoing. Princeton is interested in candidates who,
through their research, will contribute to the diversity and excellence of
the academic community.  Applicants should apply online at
https://www.princeton.edu/acad-positions/position/31281.

For more information about the project and application process, please
contact Jessica Luo (jessica.luo@noaa.gov) or Charlie Stock (
charles.stock@noaa.gov). The starting salary for postdocs in the Princeton
AOS program is $67,000/year, with an increase for year 1.

This position is subject to Princeton University's background check policy.
Princeton University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer
and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status,
protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
