---
layout: post
title: Assistant professor tenure-track position in physical oceanography (College Park, Maryland)
subtitle: University of Maryland
tags: [tenure, USA, numerical modelling, observations]
comments: false
---
The Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science at the University of
Maryland (UMD) invites applications for a tenure-track position at the
Assistant Professor level. We seek candidates with expertise in large-scale
physical oceanography, with research interests that may include quantifying
ocean-atmosphere interactions, the role of oceans in
interannual-to-multidecadal climate variability and climate change, or the
role of polar oceans in Earth's climate.

Department faculty engage in teaching, research, and service to the
University, state, and the broader community. We are seeking a colleague
who will build a vibrant, externally funded research program that
complements and expands our department?s expertise. They will teach at the
graduate and undergraduate levels, mentor undergraduate and graduate (M.S.
and Ph.D.) students, and provide intellectual leadership in curriculum
improvement and developing advanced courses. Our department?s close
relationship with the Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center
(ESSIC), a UMD research center that also administers the NOAA Cooperative
Institute for Satellite Earth System Studies, provides faculty and students
an infrastructure for multidisciplinary research with NASA, NOAA, and
the UMD Departments of Geology and Geographical Sciences. Additionally,
university-wide initiatives strengthening and growing UMD?s climate
portfolio through Grand Challenge grants and new investments advancing
multidisciplinary research should provide the successful applicant with a
nurturing environment to build their research program.


Applicants should submit the following: (1) Cover Letter describing their
interest in the position (1 page); (2) Curriculum Vitae that includes a
list of all refereed publications; (3) Teaching Statement (maximum 2
pages); (4) Research Statement (maximum 3 pages); (5) Diversity and
Inclusion Statement (1-2 pages) for providing information on your past
contributions to the success of diverse groups of students, staff, and
faculty and/or efforts to broaden their participation in atmospheric and
oceanic sciences; and (6) Names and contact information of three persons
who can provide letters of reference.


https://ejobs.umd.edu/postings/114459


The Department of Atmospheric & Oceanic Science especially encourages
applications from women, underrepresented minorities and those who can
contribute to a climate of inclusivity. Candidates who have experience
working with a diverse range of faculty, students and groups are encouraged
to identify their experiences in these areas.


The University of Maryland, College Park, an equal opportunity/affirmative
action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action; all
qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment. The
University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons
and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, physical or mental disability, protected veteran status,
age, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, creed, marital
status, political affiliation, personal appearance, or on the basis of
rights secured by the First Amendment, in all aspects of employment,
educational programs and activities, and admissions.


Best Consideration Date 12/18/2023
