---
layout: post
title: Tenure position in ecological modelling (Saint John, Canada)
subtitle: University of New Brunswick
tags: [tenure, Canada, numerical modelling, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
The Departments of Biological Sciences and Mathematics and Statistics of the Faculty of Science, Applied Science, and Engineering, at the University of New Brunswick's Saint John campus jointly invite applications for a Tier 2 NSERC Canada Research Chair in Ecological Modelling.

The Chair will establish a research program at UNB that includes use of cutting-edge quantitative approaches to address research questions related to coastal ecosystems. This may include but is not limited to research addressing problems relevant to ecosystem management (e.g., contaminants, climate change, conservation, fisheries & aquaculture, ecological forecasting, risk assessment, decision science, population, community & nutrient dynamics).

This is a tenure track appointment at the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor, commensurate with the candidate's qualifications and experience. This position has an anticipated start date any time after May 1, 2024, pending a successful CRC nomination, or such other date as may be negotiated with the successful applicant. Review of applications will commence by May 29, 2023 and will continue until the position is filled.

UNB is committed to fostering diversity within our community and developing an inclusive workplace that reflects the richness of the broader community that we serve. This position will uphold UNB's commitment to increasing the representation of under-represented groups among its chairholders. Therefore, only applicants who self-identify as racialized individuals will be considered for this opportunity. We encourage those with intersecting identities to apply (for example, racialized individuals who also identify as women, as Indigenous, and/or as persons with disability).

Per UNB regulations, the applicant must have a PhD in a discipline relevant to ecological modelling or data science. These disciplines may include, but are not limited to Biology, Statistics, and Mathematics. We seek applicants with a demonstrated record of research excellence indicated through a high-quality publishing record in highly-regarded scholarly journals and international conferences who apply their interdisciplinary knowledge to problems in biological systems. The Chair will secure external funding to support their research program, and will attract, develop, and retain excellent students (Honours, MSc, and PhD) and other trainees. The Chair is expected to contribute to undergraduate teaching (no more than the equivalent of one course per year) and to departmental and university service at a reduced rate from that of regular faculty members. Candidates should have demonstrated excellence in teaching, including at the undergraduate level, and a commitment to an inclusive learning environment for all students.

Tier 2 Chairs are intended for exceptional emerging scholars (i.e., candidates must have been active researchers in their field for fewer than 10 years at the time of nomination), acknowledged by their peers as having the potential to lead in their field. Potential applicants who are more than 10 years from having earned their highest degree, and where career breaks exist, such as maternity, parental or extended sick leave, clinical training, etc., and/or where applicable exceptional circumstances are present, may have their eligibility for a Tier 2 Chair assessed through the CRC Program's Tier 2 justification process. Please contact Heidi Van Wart at crc@unb.ca for more information. Please consult the Canada Research Chairs website for full program information, including further details on eligibility criteria.

UNB has been nurturing discovery and innovation for over 200 years. The Saint John campus, located where one of the largest watersheds in North America flows into the Bay of Fundy, has recognized strengths in Coastal Studies and is actively fostering further growth in this area. The Departments of Biological Sciences and Mathematics and Statistics offer 4-year BSc degrees in Marine Biology, Biology, Environmental Biology, Biology-Psychology, Mathematics, and Statistics as well as research-based MSc and PhD degrees in various areas of Biology, Mathematics, and Statistics. The Department of Biological Sciences has 20 faculty members with research expertise in a variety of fields of biology (with a focus on coastal ecosystems), as well as geology, chemistry, and physics. The Department of Mathematics and Statistics has a complement of 5 mathematicians and 3 statisticians with research expertise in applied mathematics, and statistical methodology for biological applications. For more information, visit the Faculty website: http://www.unb.ca/saintjohn/sase. The concentration of expertise in marine biology and coastal studies within UNB and the region, including the Department of Fisheries and Oceans' Saint Andrews Biological Station, the Huntsman Marine Science Centre, and the New Brunswick Department of Fisheries and Aquaculture, provides many opportunities for collaboration. Historic Saint John is a vibrant small coastal city known for its livability and accessibility to a diversity of pristine natural ecosystems and outdoor recreation activities (https://saintjohn.ca/).

Applications should be emailed to the attention of Chair, Hiring Committee at sci-eng@unb.ca. Include a cover letter, your CV, statements of research and teaching interests, and three academic references with their contact information. Contact Dr. Jeff Houlahan (jeffhoul@unb.ca, 506-648-5915) or Dr. Tim Alderson (tim@unb.ca, 506-648-5622) for more information about the position and the Departments of Biological Sciences and Mathematics and Statistics. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply. Applicants should indicate current citizenship status. The offer of an appointment is conditional upon a successful outcome of the CRC nomination.

UNB ensures that employment opportunities are accessible to all applicants. To request accommodations at any stage in the recruitment and hiring process, please contact UNB's Recruitment & Employee Experience Specialist at 506-453-4648 or people@unb.ca.

UNB recognizes the legitimate impact that leaves (e.g., parental, illness) can have on a candidate's record of research achievement. We recognize that career paths are not always linear, particularly for people from marginalized groups, and we encourage applicants to explain the impact any career interruptions may have had on their research history. Leaves will be taken into careful consideration during the assessment process.

Short-listed candidates will be required to provide satisfactory proof of credentials including appropriately certified translations of credentials into English, as applicable.

The University of New Brunswick is committed to fostering diversity within our community and developing an inclusive workplace that reflects the richness of the broader community that we serve. The University welcomes and encourages applications from all candidates who will help us achieve our goals, including women, visible minorities, Indigenous peoples, persons with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. Preference will be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada.

**Closing Date:** Review of applications will commence by May 29, 2023 and will continue until the position is filled.

**Link:** https://www.unb.ca/hr/careers/posting/academic.php?id=2832
