---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in trace metal biogeochemistry (East Boothbay, Maine)
subtitle: Bigelow laboratory
tags: [postdoc, USA, observations, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
*Overview*

Bigelow Laboratory invites applications for a Postdoctoral Scientist to
study the biogeochemical cycling of trace metal micronutrients such as
iron, manganese, zinc, nickel, copper, and cobalt by marine plankton
in our Trace Metal Biogeochemistry Laboratory
<https://www.bigelow.org/science/lab/trace-metal-biogeochemistry/>. The
position will focus primarily on two projects: 1) biogeochemical cycling of
particulate trace elements in the South Pacific and Southern Oceans as part
of the GEOTRACES GP17 section, and; 2) investigations into factors
influencing dissolution and bioavailability of particulate iron and other
trace elements, including with respect to controls on the efficiency of
marine carbon dioxide removal strategies.

The position is a full-time, two-year appointment. Work will be based at
Bigelow Laboratory's campus in East Boothbay, Maine (www.bigelow.org) but
may include opportunities for participation in a research cruise, as well
as travel to national laboratory facilities for synchrotron-based analyses.
The salary band for this position ranges from $54,000-$60,000 annually,
based on experience, with a generous benefits package including health
care, retirement contribution, and paid time off.

*Requirements*

Crucial Qualifications:

   - PhD in marine science, oceanography, or related environmental field
   - Excellent written and verbal communication skills
   - Ability to work in a collaborative research team


Preferred Qualifications:

   - Interest in working across biological and chemical disciplines
   - Ability to culture marine microorganisms and conduct biogeochemical
   research using trace-metal clean techniques
   - Knowledge of ICP-MS, synchrotron techniques, and other geochemical
   analytical methods
   - Have published (or submitted) dissertation chapters in peer-reviewed
   journals


*Apply*

Please submit a CV, description of research interests and main scientific
achievements, and contact information for three references using our online
application portal
<https://bigelow.freshteam.com/jobs/htjctRbX_wgx/postdoctoral-research-scientist-in-trace-metal-biogeochemistry>
. For full consideration, the application should be received by February 1,
2024; the position will remain open until it is filled.

Individuals seeking more information about this position or needing to
request an accommodation, please contact careers@bigelow.org or (207)
315-2567, ext. 107.

*Why choose Bigelow Laboratory for Postdoctoral Research?*

In brief, Bigelow Laboratory offers one of the best career growth
opportunities for early career scientists interested in bold science for
our blue planet <https://www.bigelow.org/about/>. Postdocs at Bigelow
Laboratory are an integral part of our research and educational programs.

*Cutting edge, multidisciplinary science*

Bigelow Laboratory scientists <https://www.bigelow.org/science/lab/> and
our Discovery Centers <https://www.bigelow.org/services/> use innovative
approaches to study the foundation of global ocean health and unlock its
potential to improve the future of all life on our planet. Creative,
cutting-edge science is our hallmark, fusing the best of scientific inquiry
and entrepreneurial ingenuity. Our scientists are highly productive,
frequently publishing high-impact scientific papers
<https://www.bigelow.org/science/publications/>. Postdocs at Bigelow are
encouraged to collaborate across groups, facilitated by our open lab
building layout and broad pool of technical expertise in our scientific
staff.

*Funding opportunities*

In addition to funding support on research grants, postdocs at Bigelow are
eligible to apply for internal funding to support research. For example,
Bigelow sponsors a Postdoctoral Fellowship that funds a 10-week independent
project with an undergraduate student intern as well as possibilities for
postdocs to apply as co-investigators for internal seed funding for new
ideas. Postdocs are also eligible to be co-investigators on proposals to
major funding agencies. Funding is also available to support postdocs to
teach in our educational programs. Bigelow Laboratory also welcomes
Postdoctoral Fellows who receive external funding, such as from the
National Science Foundation?s postdoctoral fellows programs
<https://beta.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities?f%5B0%5D=student_educator_eligibility:postdoc>,
NASA?s Postdoctoral Program Fellows <https://npp.orau.org/>, and various
foundation-supported fellowships.

*Teaching and mentoring opportunities*

Postdocs at Bigelow Laboratory are integral parts of our diverse educational
programs <https://www.bigelow.org/education/>. Postdocs have the funded
opportunity to co-teach sections of our fall Sea Change Semester
<https://www.bigelow.org/education/seachange/> for undergraduate students,
and postdocs can also be the primary mentor for undergraduate interns
during our summer intern program <https://www.bigelow.org/education/reu/>.
Postdocs are also eligible to apply for professional development funds to
support skill building related to teaching. As adjunct research faculty
with Colby College
<https://life.colby.edu/offcampus/colby-at-bigelow-laboratory/> ? one of
Bigelow Laboratory?s major educational program partners ? postdocs can also
participate in educator and course development opportunities through Colby
College.

*Dedicated professional development training and opportunities*

Bigelow Laboratory strongly believes in supporting the growth and
development of our postdocs. To this end, we offer a monthly training
series ? taught by our scientists and other professionals ? that covers
diverse professional development topics such as grant writing, applying for
jobs, mentoring, research ethics, course development, conflict resolution,
project management, and more. Postdocs at Bigelow also get the opportunity
to serve on our various governance committees of the institution, helping
to shape the policies <https://www.bigelow.org/about/core-values.html> of
the organization and getting real-life experience relevant to future career
stages. This kind of professional development opportunity is highly unique
to Bigelow, and provides a competitive advantage in the job market.
Postdocs at Bigelow are also eligible to apply for promotion to a Research
Scientist position as they begin to take on more intellectual leadership of
projects.

*Quality of Life*

Bigelow Laboratory believes that the greatest asset of our independent
research institute is our people. Thus, we aim for everyone to be able to
thrive. Our postdoc positions are well paid for the cost of living of the
area, and employment includes generous employee benefits like health care,
retirement plans, and paid leave. Our state-of-the-art oceanfront campus in
East Boothbay is located in scenic Midcoast Maine, perfectly situated to
provide access to the very best Maine has to offer. Within a reasonable
commuting distance of most major Maine cities, this mid-coast peninsula
offers the perfect balance between small town coastal charm and urban
accessibility. Bigelow Laboratory is an inclusive community of scientists
from around the world that welcomes and supports diverse opinions and
cultures. We strive to maintain an environment that allows our employees to
flourish through respectful, inclusive, and equitable treatment of others.
We believe there is power in embracing the full diversity of humanity to
advance science and are committed to supporting each other as individuals
worthy of respect.

*Competitive job placement success*

Postdocs from Bigelow Laboratory have a high placement rate (over 90%) in
the competitive academic job market, leveraging the broad portfolio of
experience and cutting-edge research they are able to do. In the past
decade, most of our recent postdocs have secured tenure-track academic
positions at research intensive universities as well as education-focused
liberal arts institutions, with some also going into federal or commercial
research.

*Working at Bigelow Laboratory*

Bigelow Laboratory is an inclusive community of scientists from around the
world that welcomes and supports diverse opinions and cultures. Bigelow
Laboratory for Ocean Sciences strives to maintain an environment that
allows our employees to flourish through respectful, inclusive, and
equitable treatment of others. We believe there is power in embracing the
full diversity of humanity to advance science and are committed to
supporting each other as individuals worthy of respect.

Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences requires that all employees be fully
vaccinated against COVID-19. Being fully vaccinated means that an
individual is at least two weeks past their final dose of an authorized
COVID-19 vaccine regimen. As a condition of employment, newly hired
employees will be required to provide proof of their COVID-19 vaccination.

*About Midcoast Maine*

Bigelow Laboratory?s state-of-the-art oceanfront campus in East Boothbay is
located in scenic Midcoast Maine, perfectly situated to provide access to
the very best Maine has to offer. Within a reasonable commuting distance of
most major Maine cities, this mid-coast peninsula offers the perfect
balance between small town coastal charm and urban accessibility. Our
peninsula is home to fishermen and sea captains, marine biologists, nature
lovers, botanists and gardeners, artists, merchants, and entrepreneurs.
Many non-profit organizations call this region home and work hard to
further their missions in support of the arts, seamanship and marine
education, conservation, historic preservation, and more.
