---
layout: post
title: Tenure track faculty position in fluid mechanics (Waterloo, Canada)
subtitle: University of Waterloo
tags: [tenure, Canada, oceans, lakes, climate]
comments: false
---
The Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Waterloo invites applications for a tenure-track Assistant Professor position in Fluid Mechanics. Areas of particular interest include environmental and geophysical fluid dynamics and sustainability related to climate, atmosphere, oceans and lakes. In special cases a position at the rank of Associate or Full Professor may be considered. The successful candidate will be expected to establish an outstanding research program. We are looking for applicants with an enthusiasm for teaching at both the undergraduate and graduate level, and for the supervision of graduate research. In exceptional cases, outstanding applicants in other areas of Applied Mathematics may also be considered. 

The Department of Applied Mathematics is one of four departments that, together with the School of Computer Science, comprise the Faculty of Mathematics at the University of Waterloo. The department has 30 regular faculty members, and has leading research programs in Scientific Computing Methods, Mathematical & Quantum Physics, Environmental & Geophysical Fluid Dynamics, Control & Dynamical Systems, and Mathematical Medicine & Biology. With 300 faculty members, 8,000 undergraduate students and more than 1,000 graduate students in mathematics and computer science, Waterloo’s Faculty of Mathematics is a global powerhouse in research, education and innovation. Research in the department is enhanced by interdisciplinary and industrial collaborations and links to interdisciplinary institutes including the Waterloo Climate Institute, the Water Institute, the Waterloo Institute for Sustainable Aeronautics, the Waterloo Artificial Intelligence Institute, the Centre for Computational Mathematics, the Institute for Quantum Computing, and the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. The department has a substantial graduate program with over 100 graduate students pursuing Masters or PhD degrees, and strong undergraduate programs in applied mathematics, scientific computing and mathematical physics. More information about the department can be found at https://uwaterloo.ca/applied-mathematics/. 

Candidates interested in this position should have a PhD or equivalent in Applied Mathematics or a related field. The salary range for this position is $110,000-$160,000. Salary will be commensurate with qualifications, experience, and research record. Negotiations beyond this salary range will be considered for exceptionally qualified candidates. The effective date of appointment is July 1, 2024. Interested individuals should apply using MathJobs (https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs?job-1163-23161). Applications should include a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, research and teaching statements, teaching evaluation summaries (if available) and up to three reprints/preprints. Applicants are welcome to include a statement on Equity, Diversity and Inclusion. In addition, applicants should arrange to have at least three reference letters submitted on their behalf. Applications will be reviewed starting November 1, 2023, but all complete applications received by December 1, 2023 will receive full consideration. 

The University of Waterloo understands the impact that career interruptions (e.g. parental leave, leave due to illness) can have on a candidate’s achievement and encourages potential candidates to explain in their application the impact this may have on their record; this information will be taken into careful consideration during the assessment process. 

If you have any questions regarding the position, the application process, assessment process, eligibility, or a request for accommodation during the hiring process, please contact: Prof. Hans De Sterck, Chair, Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Waterloo, Canada (hdesterck@uwaterloo.ca). 

The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office (https://uwaterloo.ca/human-rights-equity-inclusion/indigenousinitiatives). 

The University values the diverse and intersectional identities of its students, faculty, and staff. The University regards equity and diversity as an integral part of academic excellence and is committed to accessibility for all employees. The University of Waterloo seeks applicants who embrace our values of equity, anti-racism and inclusion. As such, we encourage applications from candidates who have been historically disadvantaged and marginalized, including people with disabilities and applicants who identify as Indigenous peoples (e.g., First Nations, Métis, Inuit/Inuk), Black, racialized, women and/or 2SLGBTQ+. 

The University of Waterloo is committed to accessibility for persons with disabilities. If you have any application, interview or workplace accommodation requests, please contact Maureen Fraser (mcfraser@uwaterloo.ca). All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.

Three reasons to apply: https://uwaterloo.ca/faculty-association/why-waterloo.

Link to apply: https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/list/23161
