---
layout: post
title: Computational ocean physicist (Los Alamos, New Mexico)
subtitle: Los Alamos National Laboratory
tags: [permanent, USA, numerical modelling]
comments: false
---
Our team at Los Alamos National Lab (LANL) is LANL is looking to hire a Computational Ocean Physicist at a Scientist 3 (~ Associate Prof.) level.
We are actively seeking diverse candidates with a strong ocean modeling background and project leadership experience.
I include a short description and the job link below.
Please give this exciting opportunity some consideration! If this job description is not a good fit for you, please share it with qualified candidates you know and encourage them to apply.

**Computational Ocean Physicist at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL)**

The Fluid Dynamics and Solid Mechanics (T-3) Group of the Theoretical Division at Los Alamos National Laboratory is looking to hire a researcher and project leader in ocean modeling. The successful applicant will develop a detailed understanding of the existing E3SM ocean model in the context of the fully-coupled climate system and/or help lead the development of a new ocean model for emerging computational architectures. They will be encouraged to build an independent scientific career through lead authorship of publications, presentations at international conferences, and active participation in community workshops focused on development of new model physics. They will also actively mentor postdoctoral research associates and early career scientists. Full details can be found on the LANL job website (vacancy IRC126080). Please contact lvanroekel@lanl.gov or sprice@lanl.gov for more information. 
