---
layout: post
title: PhD position in air-sea interactions and turbulence (Bonn, Germany)
subtitle: Rheinische Fridrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn
tags: [PhD, Germany, obsevations, air-sea interactions, turbulence, gas exchange]
comments: false
---
We have an open position for a fully funded PhD Fellow (3 years fulltime) at the Meteorology department at the university of Bonn.

This project involves the analysis and performance of oceanic and atmospheric turbulence measurements. In addition, it will investigate turbulence as driver of the exchange of gases between the atmosphere and oceans.

Applicants should send a CV, detailed cover letter highlighting their interest in this position, and the names and contact information of potential referees to lesters@uni-bonn.de.


**Details:**

The Rheinische Fridrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn is an international research university with a board range
of subjects. With 200 years of history, about 35.000 students, more than 6.000 members of staff and an
excellent national and international reputation, the University Bonn ranks among the most renowned
universities in Germany and has been awarded the title Excellence University.
The Meteorology department, Institute of Geosciences of the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, is
seeking in the field of atmosphere-ocean interaction, limited to 36 months a fully funded PhD candidate.
The project involves the analysis of oceanic and atmospheric turbulence measurements. In addition, it will
investigate turbulence as driver of the exchange of gases between the atmosphere and oceans. The work will
include direct measurements and experience in oceanographic or meteorological fieldwork and data analysis is
beneficial.

Your tasks: 
• Carry out original research work on the topic of ocean surface turbulence,
• Handling of large data sets,
• Produce and defend a PhD thesis on the topic,
• Process and analyze observational meteorological and oceanographic data,
• Potentially participate in fieldwork in collaboration with partner universities (both national and international),
• Participate in the teaching activities of our Meteorological courses,
• Publish and present you research in peer-reviewed scientific journals and presentations at national and international conferences

Your Profile: 
• University degree (MSc or equivalent) in meteorology, physical oceanography, physics, or similar discipline,
• Interest in interdisciplinary and international research,
• Good written and spoken English,
• Technical knowledge of Python or Matlab

We offer: 
• A diverse and challenging work with one of the largest employers in the region,
• Development of an independent research portfolio,
• Occupational retirement scheme (VBL),
• Numerous offers for university sports
• very good transport links or the opportunity to purchase a VRS bulk customer ticket or use low-cost parking facilities,
• the opportunity to part-time work from home
• Remuneration according to E13 TV-L

The University of Bonn is committed to diversity and equal opportunities. It is certified as a family-friendly
university. Its goal is to increase the proportion of women in areas where women are underrepresented and to
particularly promote their careers. It therefore strongly encourages applications from women with relevant
qualifications. Applications from suitable persons with proven severe disabilities and persons of equal status
are particularly welcome.

If you are interested in this position, please send your complete and informative application documents in
digital form by email to lesters@uni-bonn.de. For further information, please contact Prof. Dr. Esters (Tel.:
0228 73-60694)
