---
layout: post
title: Laboratory manager in Deep-Sea Group (Bethlehem, Pennsylvania)
subtitle: Lehigh University
tags: [USA, laboratory measurements, management, deep ocean]
comments: false
---
Job Title: Laboratory Manager - Deep-Sea Group:

https://www.lehighoceans.org/opportunites

Job Type: Full-time. The position is initially available for two years,
starting in August of 2023 or as soon as possible, with the possibility of
an extension depending on additional funding. Applications will be reviewed
starting July 18, 2023. The position will remain open until filled.

Annual salary range: $38,000-$65,000 plus benefits, depending on
qualifications.

About our group:

We are a research group dedicated to exploring the ocean's depths and
understanding its complex biological and geochemical systems. Our group
focuses on unraveling the mysteries of marine life and the water it lives
in through advanced molecular and chemical techniques. We seek a highly
motivated and skilled Laboratory Technician to join our team and contribute
to our exciting research projects.

Job Description:

As a Laboratory Manager, you will play a crucial role in supporting our
research activities. Your primary responsibilities will include assisting
in the execution of laboratory procedures, maintenance of instrumentation
and sampling equipment, managing and analyzing data, participating in
seagoing expeditions, and ensuring the smooth functioning of the laboratory
through effective organization and procurement.

Responsibilities:

   - Conduct molecular and chemical experiments, including sample
   preparation, DNA extraction, PCR, gel electrophoresis, and spectroscopy.
   - Carry out chemical analysis of water for pH, nutrients, major and minor
   ions, trace metals, and gases.
   - Perform routine laboratory tasks, such as maintaining and calibrating
   lab equipment, preparing reagents, and ordering necessary supplies.
   - Manage and analyze research data, including data entry, quality control,
   statistical analysis, and generating reports.
   - Utilize basic bioinformatic skills to process and analyze genetic and
   genomic data.
   - Lead mobilization and demobilization of field equipment, including
   packing and producing required documentation for transporting supplies and
   samples successfully.
   - Participate in multi-week seagoing expeditions to collect deep-sea
   samples and data, ensuring proper handling, shipment, and storage of
   samples and equipment.
   - Assist in the development and optimization of experimental protocols and
   procedures.
   - Assist in experiments and animal husbandry.
   - Maintain accurate laboratory records, including experimental protocols,
   data sheets, and inventory lists.
   - Collaborate with fellow researchers and contribute to research
   publications and presentations.
   - Ensure compliance with laboratory and field safety protocols and
   maintain a clean and organized working environment.


Desired Qualifications:

   - Bachelor's or Master's in Biology, Marine Science, Molecular Biology, or
   a related field. Candidates with a Ph.D. degree will also be considered.
   - Strong understanding and experience in molecular and chemical
   techniques, such as DNA purification, PCR, gel electrophoresis, and
   spectroscopy.
   - Proficient in data management and analysis using software tools like
   Excel, R, or Python.
   - Basic bioinformatic skills, including familiarity with genetic and
   genomic databases, sequence analysis, and statistical analysis.
   - Previous seagoing experience, preferably in deep-sea research or marine
   expeditions.
   - Excellent organizational skills with the ability to manage multiple
   tasks simultaneously.
   - Practical procurement skills to ensure the timely acquisition of
   necessary supplies and equipment.
   - Strong attention to detail and commitment to maintaining accurate and
   organized laboratory records.
   - Ability to work both independently and collaboratively in a
   team-oriented research environment.
   - Excellent written and verbal communication skills.


How to Apply: If you are passionate about marine science and eager to
contribute to groundbreaking discoveries in deep-sea research, please
submit (1) your resume or CV, (2) a cover letter describing your research
experience, career goals, and fit for the position, (3) contact information
for three references, and (4) any relevant publications or certifications
to santiago.herrear@lehigh.edu. Please include "Lab Manager - Deep-Sea" in
the subject line of your email.

Note: Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted for an interview.

Lehigh University is an equal-opportunity employer. We value diversity and
encourage applicants from all backgrounds to apply.

Recognized among the nation's premier research universities, Lehigh has an
exciting academic community of more than 520 faculty, ~2000 graduate, and
~5600 undergraduate students. Lehigh University is strategically located in
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, 84 miles west of New York City and 56 miles north
of Philadelphia, with easy access to both cities. The Lehigh Valley area
offers many urban and rural settings, beautiful landscapes, and affordable
housing.
