---
layout: post
title: Tenure-track positions in geological oceanography and remote sensing oceanography (College station, Texas)
subtitle: Texas A&M University
tags: [tenure, USA, satellite observations, sediments]
comments: false
---
The Department of Oceanography at Texas A&M University has two open tenure
track positions: one in Geological Oceanography and one in Remote Sensing
Oceanography.

**Tenure Track Assistant Professor for Geological Oceanography/Marine
Geology**

The Department of Oceanography at Texas A&M University is seeking
applications for one full-time tenure-track faculty position with a 9-month
academic appointment at the rank of Assistant Professor. This position has
an anticipated start date of August 1, 2024. We welcome applications from
individuals with broad interests in Geological Oceanography/Marine Geology
including but not limited to ocean margin sedimentary processes, ocean
ridge geologic processes, environmental and early diagenetic records from
marine sediments, and/or individuals who can leverage existing TAMU Ocean
Science alliance partners listed below.

The successful applicant will be expected to develop and maintain an
independent, externally-funded research program; teach courses in the
Department of Oceanography at the graduate and undergraduate levels; advise
and mentor graduate and undergraduate students; participate in departmental
and college activities; and serve the discipline of oceanography. The
Department of Oceanography, located in College Station, Texas, is part of
an alliance of Ocean Sciences that includes the Marine Sciences and Marine
Biology Departments at TAMU Galveston, the Geochemical and Environmental
Research Group, the International Ocean Discovery Program, the Gulf of
Mexico Coastal Ocean Observing System, and Texas Sea Grant. This alliance
of Ocean Sciences represents a unique concentration of educational and
research resources. Texas A&M University is a land-, sea-, and space-grant
university, with a dynamic and international community of over 250,000
people. Information about the Department of Oceanography can be found at:
https://ocean.tamu.edu/.

The University is aware that attracting and retaining exceptional faculty
often depends on meeting the needs of two careers and therefore implements
policies that contribute to work-life balance, including the Dual-Career
Program.

Qualifications: Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Oceanography or related
field at the time of appointment. Postdoctoral experience is desirable but
is not required. Strong written and verbal communication skills are
required.



To apply, please submit the following required documents:

-         Cover letter

-         CV

-         Personal statement to include philosophy and plans for teaching, research, and service as applicable

-         Names and contact information for three reference at apply.interfolio.com/134882



Informal inquiries or requests for more information may be sent via email
to the Search Committee Chair: Dr. Niall Slowey at slowey@tamu.edu.
Applications will be reviewed beginning on December 20th, but the position will remain
open until filled.

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action/Veterans/Disability Employer
committed to diversity.


**Tenure Track Assistant Professor for Remote Sensing in Oceanography**


The Department of Oceanography in the College of Arts and Sciences at Texas
A&M University is seeking applications for one full-time tenure-track
faculty position with a 9-month academic appointment at the rank of
Assistant Professor.  This position has an anticipated start date of August
1, 2024. We welcome applications from individuals with broad interests in
Remote Sensing for Ocean Science with expertise including but not limited
to high-resolution satellite observations, marine boundary layer processes
and air-sea fluxes, sea-surface height and ocean circulation, sea-surface
salinity and freshwater fluxes, marine ecosystem health, ocean color and
primary productivity, ocean acidification and carbon cycling, ocean data
assimilation, and/or who can leverage existing TAMU Centers of Excellence
listed below.


The successful applicant will be expected to teach courses in the
Department of Oceanography at the graduate and undergraduate levels; advise
and mentor graduate and undergraduate research students; develop and
maintain an independent, externally-funded research program; participate in
departmental and college activities; and serve the discipline of
oceanography.

The Department of Oceanography, located in College Station, Texas, is part
of an alliance of Ocean Sciences that includes the Marine Sciences and
Marine Biology Departments at TAMU Galveston, the Geochemical and
Environmental Research Group, the International Ocean Discovery Program,
the Gulf of Mexico Coastal Ocean Observing System, and Texas Sea Grant.
This alliance of Ocean Sciences represents a unique concentration of
educational and research resources. Texas A&M University is a land-, sea-,
and space-grant university, with a dynamic and international community of
over 250,000 people. Information about the Department of Oceanography can
be found at: https://ocean.tamu.edu/.

The University is aware that attracting and retaining exceptional faculty
often depends on meeting the needs of two careers and therefore implements
policies that contribute to work-life balance, including the Dual-Career
Program.

Qualifications: Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Oceanography or related
field at the time of appointment. Postdoctoral experience is desirable but
is not required. Strong written and verbal communication skills are
required.



To apply, please submit the following required documents:

-         Cover letter

-         CV

-         Personal statement to include philosophy and plans for teaching, research, and service as applicable

-         Names and contact information for three references at http://apply.interfolio.com/133449

Informal inquiries or requests for more information may be sent via email
to the Search Committee Chair: Dr. Ping Chang at ping@tamu.edu.  Applications
will be reviewed beginning on December 25th, but the position will remain
open until filled.


Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action/Veterans/Disability Employer
committed to diversity.
