---
layout: post
title: Tenure-track position in microbial oceanography and pelagic ecosystem processes (Manoa, Hawaii)
subtitle: University of Hawaii at Manoa (UHM)
tags: [tenure, USA, marine ecosystems, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
Microbial Oceanographer specializing in Pelagic Ecosystem Processes

The Department of Oceanography, University of Hawaii at Manoa (UHM)
invites applications for a full-time, tenure-track, 9-month faculty
position in Microbial Oceanography at the rank of assistant professor.

We seek a candidate who will expand the expertise of our department and
integrate undergraduate and graduate education with cutting-edge research.
Since its founding over half a century ago, the department has been a world
leader in interdisciplinary oceanographic research and education, and we
are excited to grow our dynamic, vibrant community with new colleagues to
continue this legacy. UHM is the only recognized Native Hawaiian-serving R1
university and draws students from a diverse population including Hawaiian,
Pacific Islander, and Asian ethnicities. The Department of Oceanography is
committed to serving and affirming our unique community and culture in the
center of the Pacific Ocean and to continued research excellence.

The successful candidate will have field research experience in microbial
oceanography of pelagic ecosystems with an emphasis on one of the following
topics: production and cycling of organic matter, nutrient dynamics,
microbial community structure and function, or related pelagic ecosystem
processes, including the impacts of climate change.

Position duties include: develop and sustain a vigorous extramurally
supported, collaborative research program that complements existing
expertise in the department; conduct outstanding classroom teaching and
mentoring of students in the department; and, provide service to the
department, school, university, and larger scientific community.

Minimum qualifications: Ph.D. degree in Oceanography, or a related
discipline; demonstrated ability for creative, high-quality research,
evident in a portfolio of at least three peer-reviewed publications;
demonstrated ability for effective written and oral communication; ability
to effectively teach and mentor a diverse population of undergraduate and
graduate students; and commitment to support our shared values of
inclusion, mutual respect, collaboration and equity, so that participants
with diverse backgrounds feel welcome, included and can thrive.
Demonstrated past research experience that involves sea-going observations,
experimentation, or data collection.

Desirable qualifications: success in competition for extramural grants,
contracts, or fellowships; intention to participate in oceanographic field
research that contributes to interdisciplinary collaboration; interest in
utilizing the UHM Marine Center and research vessels, and the UNOLS and
international research fleet more broadly; interest in contributing novel
courses to the department?s curriculum; post-doctoral research experience,
or equivalent.

For the complete job announcement and instructions on how to apply online
see: https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/hawaiiedu. Search for position
number 0082500 and click on the "Apply" button on the top right corner of
the screen and attach the required documents, described below.  If this is
your first time using NEOGOV you will need to create an account. Applicants
must upload the following: (1) a cover letter in which you identify the
position to which you are applying, (2) a curriculum vitae, (3) statements
about your past work and future plans in (3a) research, (3b) teaching and
mentorship, and (3c) furthering of the department?s commitment to
diversity, equity, and inclusion, (4) three representative publications,
and (5) the names and contact information of five references. Topics for
statements in (3) may include, but are not limited to: scientific
leadership, research methodologies, how you will strengthen and complement
the mission of the Department of Oceanography and the School of Ocean and
Earth Science and Technology, mentoring, innovative pedagogy, service and
outreach, or strategies for engaging a wide variety of learners and
stakeholders.

Questions should be directed to the search committee chair, Professor David
Karl (dkarl@hawaii.edu). More information about the Department of
Oceanography can be found at http://ocean.hawaii.edu/.

Review of applications will begin on 1 March 2024, and will continue until
the position has been filled. We expect to have the successful hire in
place for the start of the 2024-2025 academic year.

The University of Hawaii is an equal opportunity / affirmative action
institution.
