---
layout: post
title: Tenure-track faculty positions in estuarine and marine science (Cambridge, Maryland)
subtitle: University of Maryland, Horn Point Laboratory
tags: [tenure, USA, coastal ocean, biogeochemistry, marine ecosystems]
comments: false
---
Job Description

The Horn Point Laboratory (HPL) of the University of Maryland Center for
Environmental Science (UMCES) invites applications from individuals who
demonstrate excellence in innovative research, broadening participation,
and translational science to solve environmental problems.   Candidates in
any research specialty that complements and enhances our core competencies
and mission in areas of estuarine or marine biogeochemistry, plankton
ecology, numerical modeling, restoration ecology (e.g. oysters, SAVs,
living shorelines), and oceanography are encouraged to apply.  Specific
areas of interest that we have identified include, but are not limited to,
planktonic microeukaryote ecology (phytoplankton, HABs, protist ecology,
mixotrophy, microbial food webs) and benthic productivity (submerged
aquatic vegetation).  We anticipate between one and three tenure track
faculty positions at Horn Point Laboratory at the ranks of Assistant or
Associate Professor.


Research at HPL is inter- and trans-disciplinary, with many collaborations
within HPL, and across all UMCES research units.  This research reaches
across a 'genes to ecosystems' continuum in a diverse array of terrestrial,
freshwater, estuarine and marine environments, and spans scales of local,
regional, and global importance. A key part of the UMCES mission is unique
for an academic institution - to provide objective, scientific advice on
environmental management and policy to the State of Maryland, with
particular interest in the health of the Chesapeake Bay.  All faculty are
encouraged to contribute to UMCES's nascent Chesapeake Global Collaborative
(CGC) initiative (https://www.umces.edu/chesapeake-global-collaboratory),
which aims to use big data approaches to solve big problems by engaging
diverse voices, and developing innovative tools and products.


The Horn Point Laboratory is committed to increasing the diversity of our
campus community, to further equity and inclusion, and is taking action to
promote and improve our culture of civility through policies and practices.


The Horn Point Laboratory is located on an 800-acre former estate on the
banks of the Choptank River in Cambridge, in the heart of Maryland's
Eastern Shore.  HPL scientists have multiple collaborations with our
neighboring system institutions including Salisbury University and the
University of Maryland, Eastern Shore, as well as universities around the
world.  HPL is home to one of the largest oyster hatcheries on the East
Coast, producing oyster spat for restoration and the industry, as well as
providing applied research opportunities.  Our research facilities include
walk-in culturing chambers, analytical services for nutrients and pigments,
a small boat fleet, shared microscopes, extensive flowing seawater
laboratories, high performance computing, and high internet bandwidth.


Faculty positions at HPL and UMCES provide a unique opportunity to focus
primarily on research, mentor graduate students, co-teach with other UMCES
faculty a relatively light load of graduate-level classes, and participate
in collaborative application and outreach of science.

UMCES is Maryland's graduate university for the environment and one of the
twelve institutions of the University System of Maryland (USM). Maryland?s
people and environments are diverse, including urban-to-rural and
mountains-to-sea gradients. The UMCES mission includes advancing
world-class fundamental and applied research, promoting graduate-level
education, furthering community engagement and science application, and
providing scientific expertise for environmental policies on topics such as
air, land, water, fisheries and wildlife management in the Chesapeake Bay
watershed and beyond. UMCES scientists are developing solutions to help
guide our state, nation, and world toward a more environmentally
sustainable and equitable future through six highly collaborative, UMCES
institutions ? Appalachian Laboratory, Chesapeake Biological Laboratory,
Horn Point Laboratory, the Institute of Marine and Environmental
Technology, the Integration and Application Network, and the Maryland Sea
Grant College. An over-arching Chesapeake Global Collaboratory is being
developed to link big data approaches to environmental problem solving.



Minimum Qualifications

A Ph.D. or equivalent terminal degree in an environmental science, as well
as a record of scholarly achievement in environmental science, including
publications and teaching  experience, is required.

Preferred Qualifications

The successful candidate should have a demonstrated: 1) commitment to
scientific excellence and productivity, 2) ability to establish a
well-funded research program that aligns with the position description, 3)
interest in mentoring graduate students and teaching graduate-level
courses, 4) potential to collaborate with other HPL faculty, and 5) ability
to broaden participation in science and contribute to a campus climate of
inclusivity.

EEO Statement

The University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science is an equal
opportunity employer. The Center's policies, programs, and activities are
in conformance with pertinent Federal and State laws and regulations on
nondiscrimination regarding race, color, religion, age, national origin,
sex, and disability. Inquiries regarding compliance with Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; Title IX of the Educational
Amendments; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or related legal requirements
should be directed to the Director of Human Relations, Center
Administration, P.O. Box 775, Cambridge, MD 21613.

University Information

The University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science unleashes the
power of science to transform the way society understands and manages the
environment. By conducting cutting-edge research into today's most
pressing environmental problems, we are developing new ideas to help guide
our state, nation, and world toward a more environmentally sustainable
future through five research centers: the Appalachian Laboratory in
Frostburg, the Chesapeake Biological Laboratory in Solomons, the Horn Point
Laboratory in Cambridge, the Institute of Marine and Environmental
Technology in Baltimore, and the Maryland Sea Grant College in College
Park. www.umces.edu

The University offers an excellent benefits package including health
insurance, retirement package, and paid vacation and sick leave.

Additional Information

Applicants should apply via https://umces.peopleadmin.com/postings/1811 and
submit the following electronically: (1) a cover letter that introduces the
candidate, and describes how they meet the qualifications we are looking
for; (2) curriculum vitae; 3) a diversity statement expressing your
experience and plans to broaden participation in science, 4) a statement on
your research and teaching plans including how you would incorporate
graduate student mentoring into your research, and (5) names of three
references (including title, affiliation, telephone, and e-mail address).
Review of applications will begin on March 4, 2024 and will continue until
filled. We anticipate that these positions will begin in the fall or winter
of 2024.  Inquiries may be addressed to the search committee chair, Dr.
Patricia Glibert (glibert@umces.edu).



Required Documents

   1. a cover letter that introduces the candidate, and how they generally
   meet the qualifications for the position, and intended level of appointment.
   
   2. your curriculum vitae.
  
   3. a diversity statement expressing your experience and plans to broaden
   participation in science.
   
   4. a statement on your research and teaching plans including how you would
   incorporate graduate student mentoring into your research.
   
   5. names of three references (including title, affiliation, telephone, and
   e-mail address).
