---
layout: post
title: PhD position in sea ice energy budgets (Bremerhaven, Germany)
subtitle: Alfred Wegener Institute
tags: [PhD, Germany, numerical modelling, observations, Arctic Ocean, sea ice]
comments: false
---
We are looking for a PhD student working on sea ice energy budgets from field data and numerical models. The work is embedded into our work to advance our understanding and to improve our predictive skills, the Transregional Collaborative Research Centre TR172 “(AC)3: Arctic Amplification: Climate Relevant Atmospheric and Surface Processes and Feedback Mechanisms” was funded. (see www.ac3-tr.de).

The thesis will work on the hypothesis that changing sea ice properties and associated radiative fluxes enhance Arctic amplification. It will study the most relevant scales (time and space) that govern radiative fluxes in ice-covered oceans and analyze how regional and seasonal changes in sea-ice surface properties contribute to Arctic amplification. The work will be based on field observations and numerical simulations of sea ice properties in the Arctic Ocean. A focus is spectral radiation and mass balance measurements from our remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and autonomous stations. These measurements will be used to derive and evaluate improvements in numerical models, describing physical snow and sea ice properties and energy fluxes.

Please find more details here:

https://jobs.awi.de/Vacancies/1587/Description/2

Application deadline is 15 March 2024 with a start of the position at your earliest convenience.
