---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in chemical oceanography (Lewes, Delaware)
subtitle: University of Delaware, School of Marine Science and Policy
tags: [postdoc, USA, observations, hydrothermal vents, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
We are looking to fill a two year postdoctoral researcher position in the
laboratory of Dr. Andrew Wozniak, University of Delaware, School of Marine
Science and Policy (Lewes, DE, USA). The post-doc will be an integral team
member for a highly collaborative, NSF-funded award studying the role that
hydrothermal vent systems play in the formation and fate of the refractory
aromatic C that persists in the deep ocean. The project will include a
research cruise to the East Pacific Ridge (9-10 degree N) hydrothermal vent
system aboard the R/V Atlantis and utilize the HOV *Alvin* for collection
of vent fluid materials. The project will employ a variety of
state-of-the-art geochemical analyses including ultrahigh resolution
Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry and 1H NMR
spectroscopy among others. The desired candidate will have a strong
background in some combination of chemical oceanography,  mass
spectrometry, NMR spectroscopy,  hydrothermal vent systems, and research
vessel-based oceanographic field research. The applicant will be asked to
design and conduct experiments independently, analyze and interpret
results, present work at meetings, and write scientific manuscripts. They
must be highly self-motivated and work well in a collaborative research
environment.

Interested candidates should send a CV and a brief description of interest
to awozniak@udel.edu. The position is open until filled and carries an
expected start date of September 1, 2024.
