---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in ocean biogeochemical modeling (Greenbelt, USA)
subtitle: Nasas goddard space flight center
tags: [postdoc, ocean biogeochemical modeling, USA]
comments: false
---
Candidates are sought for a postdoctoral or similar position under
supervision of Dr. Lionel Arteaga
<https://science.gsfc.nasa.gov/sci/bio/lionel.arteagaquintero>, oceanographer
and Earth scientist primarily working on ocean carbon fluxes and the
connection between marine ecosystems and climate. Research will be
conducted in support of NASA?s Global Modeling and Assimilation Office
(GMAO) <https://science.gsfc.nasa.gov/earth/gmao> in conjunction with
the Goddard
Earth Sciences Technology and Research II (GESTAR II)
<https://gestar2.umbc.edu/> consortium.

Research in the GMAO emphasizes the use of satellite observations to
address questions about climate variability, water and energy budgets,
composition, and weather and climate prediction. Global ocean, atmosphere
and land surface models are developed as components of assimilation and
forecast systems, as well as for addressing the weather and climate
research questions identified in NASA?s science mission.

Highly-motivated recent graduates with a background in oceanography, data
science, or closely related science/engineering disciplines are encouraged
to apply.

Project research focuses on the impact of marine heatwaves (MHWs) on the
biological carbon pump. This NASA-funded project will use the NASA Ocean
Biogeochemical Model (NOBM) to investigate and forecast changes in carbon
export in response to MHWs, with the goal of identifying key planktonic and
biogeochemical drivers and consequences.

This is a 3-year position, located onsite at NASA?s Goddard Space Flight
Center (GSFC) in Greenbelt, MD.

Required Qualifications:

   - M.S. in oceanography, data science, or closely related
   science/engineering discipline
   - Programming skills and experience
   - Excellent communication skills

Preferred Skills:

   - PhD in related field
   - Experience with MATLAB/Python/Fortran and other language and software
   tools

This position is administratively supported by the GESTAR II Consortium,
which supports over 140 researchers based primarily at NASA Goddard Space
Flight Center. GESTAR II researchers work to create extensive opportunities
for breakthroughs in earth and atmospheric science research, carrying out
observational, experimental and theoretical research in support of NASA
strategic Earth Science mission objectives.

Goddard?s Earth Science Division is home to about 200 civil servants and
over 1200 collaborating researchers and support personnel, dedicated to
studying the Earth as an integrated system that includes the atmosphere,
oceans, biosphere, cryosphere, and geosphere. The Division operates as a
component of the Sciences and Exploration Directorate that collaborate on
interdisciplinary research with the Astrophysics Science, Heliophysics
Science, and Solar System Exploration Divisions.

The nominal starting date is early 2025, but alternate dates are possible
depending on availability.

Candidates should provide a cover letter, CV (including publication list),
and a 3-page statement of research interests. Short-listed candidates will
be asked to supply three letters of reference at a later date. All
materials and inquiries should be sent by email Subject line: Postdoctoral
Researcher Position to: Lionel Arteaga (lionel.arteagaquintero@nasa.gov)

Completed applications received by January 17, 2025 will receive full
consideration, however the posting will remain open until the position is
filled.

Salary and benefits are competitive, commensurate with experience and
qualifications. The GESTAR II consortium and NASA/GSFC are committed to
building a diverse research community and encourage applications from
women, racial and ethnic minorities, individuals with disabilities and
veterans. All GESTAR II institutions are Affirmative Action, Equal
Opportunity Employers.

