---
layout: post
title: Laboratory technician (Duck, North Carolina)
subtitle: Hourglass Climate
tags: [engineer, USA, observations, carbon dioxide removal]
comments: false
---
Laboratory Technician, Entry-Level (full-time)

Location: Duck, NC (US citizenship required)

Salary Range: $50,000 - $74,000

Start Date: May 1, 2024 or thereafter

Duration: 1 year

We encourage members of groups historically underrepresented in science and
engineering to apply to this role.

Hourglass Climate <https://www.linkedin.com/company/hourglass-climate/> is
a USA-based non-profit organization with the mission to strategically
research the safety and efficacy of mineral-based Ocean Alkalinity
Enhancement (OAE) techniques for responsible carbon removal and climate
impact at scale.

The ocean is our greatest resource for capturing hard-to-abate, and
historical, carbon dioxide emissions, a non-negotiable part of limiting
climate warming to 2?C, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC). OAE via alkaline minerals has the potential for permanent,
gigatonne-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) with significant co-benefits
such as a reduction in ocean acidification. However, targeted, independent
and integrated research that rapidly de-risks the key uncertainties around
OAE techniques is urgently needed. To do just that, Hourglass brings
together an ecosystem of scientists to conduct model, laboratory, and field
research for the public benefit.

Job Description:

Hourglass is seeking an entry-level Laboratory Technician to support
laboratory duties and assist in the field operations of a world-class
science program that will monitor and assess the outcomes of a third-party
OAE field trial. The selected candidate will work hands-on with fellow team
members and assist with preparing for, collecting, and processing of
seawater, porewater, sediment, and ecological samples.

The ideal candidate is a motivated problem-solver ready to think through
novel operations, a highly detail-oriented individual that understands the
importance of protocols and standard operating procedures in a lab and
field setting, and a team player who seeks to support their colleagues with
a ?no-task-too-small? mindset and works well as part of a team. This is a
full-time position and will report to the Laboratory Manager.

The ideal candidate can easily fulfill the responsibilities of this
position described below and has the following qualifications and
experience:

Responsibilities

   - Assist in the day-to-day execution of laboratory operations, including lab supply inventorying and ordering, as well as sample preparation, processing and analysis.
   - Assist with day-to-day field operations including field supply ordering and preparation, as well as equipment maintenance.
   - Independently operate, calibrate, and maintain a spectrophotometer, sondes, and probes (e.g. pH, DO and conductivity). Training provided.
   - Prepare standards and chemical solutions for analytical use.
   - Conduct hands-on, field-based research aboard a vessel in the nearshore waters of the field trial project area.
   - Carry out data entry into a data management structure.
   - Other lab-based tasks required to support geochemical analyses requested by the Laboratory Manager.

Minimum Qualifications

   - B.Sc. in chemistry, oceanography, geoscience, or related fields with extensive classroom laboratory experience.
   - Independent thinking and working style.
   - Hands-on, problem-solving attitude.
   - Team player
   - Proficiency in MS Office and Google sheets/docs for data entry and reporting.
   - Meticulous attention to detail in planning and procedure.
   - Ability to maintain safety and quality control standards.
   - Strong interest in biology, earth sciences, geochemistry, oceanography, and/or climate change.

Preferred Qualifications

   - Experience with sample preparation for field campaigns
   - Field experience collecting marine water, sediment, and/or ecological samples
   - Familiarity with marine carbonate chemistry concepts.
   - Experience in applying field and/or laboratory standard operating procedures and protocols.
   - Proficiency in handling and processing data using computational tools such as R, Python, Matlab or similar programs.

Compensation:

Salary is based on the candidate's experience and ranges from $50,000 -
$74,000. Additionally, Hourglass offers a generous benefits package.

Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion:

Hourglass is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Hourglass is dedicated to
transparent recruitment, hiring, and promotion processes. Candidates with
diverse backgrounds and experiences are strongly encouraged to apply.

Apply:

To be considered for this position, please submit a resume and a cover
letter to jobs@hourglassclimate.org with the position title in the subject
line. The position will remain open until it is filled.
