---
layout: post
title: PhD position in predictability of compound extreme events in the ocean (Hamburg, Germany)
subtitle: University of Hamburg
tags: [PhD, Germany, numerical modelling, biogeochemistry]
comments: false
---
The Max Planck Institute for Meteorology (MPI-M) is a multidisciplinary center for climate and Earth system research located in Hamburg, Germany. It is one of the premier climate science research institutes in the world. Located in the heart of one of Europe’s most livable and vibrant cities, it provides a highly international and interdisciplinary environment to conduct scientific research as well as access to state-of-the-art scientific facilities. You can also have a virtual tour to our campus.

 
THE POSITION

3-year positon for a doctoral candidate (W0021, all genders).

The successful candidate will be part of the International Max Planck Research School on Earth System Modeling (IMPRS-ESM), as well as the Working Group "Modeling the carbon cycle in the earth system" at Universität Hamburg under the supervision of Prof. Tatiana Ilyina. The group works on variability and predictability of the ocean carbon sink and the carbon cycle on decadal time-scales, as well as their impacts on Earth’s climate via the climate-carbon-cycle feedbacks.

 

This position will focus on investigating mechanisms of predictability of compound extreme events in the ocean and their effects on the carbon sink and biogeochemical cycles. As a result of anthropogenic carbon emissions, marine heat waves, low-oxygen, and ocean acidity extremes are intensifying, become more frequent and persistent. One main objective of this project is to investigate the mechanisms of occurrence of such extreme events in the ocean, as well as the sources of their predictability. The task will involve designing and conducting numerical experiments with the Earth system model ICON, which includes the ocean biogeochemistry model HAMOCC.
 
YOUR PROFILE
 

    The applicant is expected to hold a M.Sc. or diploma in Geosciences, Oceanography, Environmental Sciences, Physics or a related field
    Experience, or a strong interest in ocean carbon cycle and modeling is of advantage
    Solid skills in programming (UNIX/Linux, Python, shell scripting, processing, and visualization of simulation data will be regarded very favorably, since the applicant will work on the high performance computer system
    Basic knowledge of numerical analysis and statistical methods are desirable

 
OUR OFFER
 

    Participation in a challenging part of science in an international, intellectually stimulating environment
    Access to complex workflows on the bleeding edge of what is technologically possible, as well as working for and with an open-source community
    Very good opportunities for self-realization, freedom in and influence upon the decisions what to do, and how to do it
    A network of very experienced and innovative colleagues within the institute with a long-proven tradition of sharing knowledge and information
    Attractive subsidy for job ticket in Hamburg (DeutschlandJobTicket)

 
EMPLOYEEMENT CONDITIONS
 

    This Ph.D. position is part of the International Max Planck Research School on Earth System Modelling (IMPRS-ESM).
    Candidates will be evaluated based on their qualifications and ability to fulfill the responsibilities as outlined for this project. Payment will be in accordance with German public service positions depending on qualification (E13 TVöD, 65%), including extensive social security plans. The conditions of employment, including upgrades and duration, follow the rules of the Max Planck Society for the Advancement of Science and those of the German civil service. The position is in principle full time.

The Max Planck Society is committed to increasing the number of individuals with disabilities in its workforce and therefore encourages applications from such qualified individuals. We welcome applications from diverse backgrounds and explicitly encourage women to apply. The Max Planck Society strives for gender and diversity equality.
 
INTERESTED?

We look forward to receiving your online application by 15 March 2024.

For further information, please contact Prof. Dr. Tatiana Ilyina.

Please do not forward your application to this email address. The application documents should include a cover letter, a detailed curriculum vitae, relevant certificates, the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of two referees. All documents (PDF only) need to be submitted through this online application system.

Job posting and application page:

https://jobs.mpimet.mpg.de/jobposting/fcb8fa96c351b278f4199dea84df1c5ff57bf0630
