---
layout: post
title: Senior data scientist in remote sensing and data fusion
subtitle: Global Fishing Watch
tags: [satellite observations, fisheries, machine learning]
comments: false
---
Global Fishing Watch (GFW) is an international, nonprofit organization
advancing transparency of human activity at sea to improve the management
of our ocean. We do research, develop technology, and publicly share data
about human activities and associated impact to enable a fair and
sustainable use of our ocean. Founded in 2015 through a collaboration
between Oceana, SkyTruth, and Google, GFW became an independent
organization in June 2017. Using machine learning, cloud computing and
satellite data, we have produced the first global mapping of industrial
fishing and energy development across the ocean. By 2030, we aim to map the
activity of most ocean-going vessels and offshore infrastructure, all the
way from small-scale and industrial fishing to transport and energy
activities. We believe human activity at sea should be public knowledge in
order to safeguard the global ocean commons for the benefit of all.

*The Position*

The Research and Innovation team at Global Fishing Watch (GFW) connects
data science and machine learning experts with leaders in the scientific
community to produce new datasets, publish impactful research, and empower
others to use our data. Our work aims to harness satellite imagery,
computer vision, and big data technology to address some of the most
pressing issues facing the marine environment.

We are mapping the global footprint of commercial activity at sea,
including the activity of all ocean-going vessels and offshore
infrastructure. This work involves applying deep learning and data fusion
techniques to petabytes of satellite imagery (radar and optical) and
billions of GPS positions from vessels, mostly from the automatic
identification system (AIS) and private vessel monitoring systems (VMS).

The Senior Data Scientist will play a key role in the Research & Innovation
team on management and strategic planning of our satellite imagery and data
fusion projects. They will oversee a diverse team of machine learning
engineers and data scientists. This team work includes developing object
detection models for medium-resolution (3m) PlanetScope optical imagery
from Planet Labs, refining existing data pipelines and modeling frameworks
for Sentinel-1 (SAR) and Sentinel-2 (optical) imagery, and devising data
fusion strategies to integrate satellite-based detections from multiple
sources with vessel GPS data, among other activities.

The Senior Data Scientist  will assess emerging data sources and
technologies to identify new opportunities. This is a critical role in the
development of the open ocean project
(https://globalfishingwatch.org/open-ocean-project/), an effort by Global
Fishing Watch to map all industrial activity at sea.

The incumbent will lead a team of GFW's data scientists and machine
learning experts while working for a globally diverse, fully distributed,
and growing organization. Coordinating the work with other teams at Global
Fishing Watch, including the engineering and product teams, will be crucial
to the success of this role. They will develop diverse skills in leadership
and technical project management, as well as refine expertise in large
scale machine learning. The successful candidate will be highly organized,
skilled at managing multiple tasks, and excited to help Global Fishing
Watch develop innovative technologies, strong partnerships, and
cutting-edge science.

*Principal Duties*

   - Manage Research and Innovation projects related to remote sensing and
   data fusion, including outlining project scope, milestones and
   deliverables, prioritizing projects within the portfolio based on strategic
   goals and team capacity, and tracking progress toward deliverables.
   - Manage a team of data scientists and machine learning engineers,
   fostering a collaborative and innovative work environment, and providing
   technical guidance and expertise in remote sensing and data science.
   - Coordinate the development of projects with other teams at GFW, such
   as the Engineering, Product, and Program teams.
   - Stay abreast of industry trends and emerging technologies in remote
   sensing to assess new opportunities of improving our work.
   - Device, coordinate, and implement systems, policies, and procedures.
   - Ensure a safe, welcoming, inclusive, and ethical work environment.

*Skills you should have*

   - Bachelor's degree and at least seven years of professional experience,
   or an equivalent combination of education and experience, in physical/earth
   sciences or engineering.
   - At least 2 years of experience in team management.
   - An understanding of what is possible to monitor using remote sensing
   technologies.
   - Experience managing research and development projects related to
   remote sensing and geospatial analysis.
   - Excellent communication skills, both verbal and written.
   - Highly organized, analytical, detail-oriented, and proactive.
   - Ability to work efficiently in a fast-paced environment and to a high
   standard of detail.
   - Ability to communicate project updates to stakeholders in a
   transparent and proactive manner.
   - Ability to manage multiple priorities under tight deadlines in a
   collaborative environment.
   - Extensive experience programming in Python.

*Also great*

   - Familiarity with object detection, neural network architectures, and
   deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow or PyTorch.
   - Experience with SQL and large query systems like BigQuery or
   relational databases.
   - Experience engaging with academic research and the peer-review process.
   - Experience interacting with researchers and software engineers.
   - An understanding of how to collaborate in a global and remote
   organization.
   - Awareness of ethical considerations related to privacy and bias in
   satellite imagery analysis.
   - Experience with making large studies reproducible.
   - Experience leading academic publications.

The successful candidate will meet most, but not necessarily all, of the
criteria above. If you don't think you check all the boxes, but believe you
have unique skills that make you a great fit for the role, we want to hear
from you!

*Additional Information*

*Reporting to: Director, Research and Innovation*

*Manages: Scientific programmer, machine learning engineer, and up to two
data scientists (Subject to change)*

*Term: Permanent position*

*FT/PT: Full-time*

*Recruiting process*

*To Apply:* Please submit the application at
https://boards.greenhouse.io/globalfishingwatch/jobs/5942178003

Please apply by May 3rd, 2024

*Recruiting Process*: A cover letter along with a CV will be requested to
see how your experience and interest connect to the position. We expect the
cover letter to explain details on how your skill set aligns with the
role. If selected for consideration, the hiring process for this position
will include a formal 60 minute interview with 2-3 staff followed by a 30
minute administrative screening by a Human Resources manager. Candidates
advancing beyond this round will be asked to take a technical assessment.
Lastly, an additional 60 minute call with 3-4 members of the hiring team
will be held with finalists.

*Working Hours*: Global Fishing Watch supports flexible working, so the
pattern of hours may vary according to operational and personal needs. The
position will be part of a global team spanning many different time zones
and so the candidate must be able to accommodate regular early/late
meetings to be able to work effectively. Weekend work may be required on
occasion. The post holder may be required to undertake regional and
international travel.

*Where We Work*: Please be advised that Global Fishing Watch is only able to
hire candidates in the countries where we currently operate. Our country
list includes: Argentina, Australia, Barbados, Brazil, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Fiji, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Indonesia,
Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Mexico, Panama, Philippines, Senegal, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Taiwan, UK, USA

*Compensation*: A compensation range for this position is US$ 125,00 -
140,000 for US-based employees - For applicants located outside of the US,
the pay range will be adjusted to the country of hire. Compensation is
commensurate with experience and will vary depending on the hired
candidate?s country of residence, in accordance with local laws and
regulations. GFW offers pension/retirement, health and other benefits
commensurate with similar level GFW employees in the country of employment.
The position may be a GFW employee or consultant, depending on the country
of residence.

*Equal opportunities*: Global Fishing Watch is an equal opportunities
employer. Global Fishing Watch is committed to promoting diversity and
inclusion within our organization and in the greater ocean management and
conservation community. We believe that diverse backgrounds, skills,
knowledge and viewpoints make us a stronger organization. Bringing together
professionals who possess broad experiences and a spectrum of perspectives
will enable us to reach our goal of improved ocean governance faster. We
hire and promote qualified professionals without regard to actual or
perceived race, color, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, marital or parental status, national origin, age, physical or
mental disability or medical condition, or any other characteristic
protected by applicable law. Our organizational goals match the urgent
challenges facing our global ocean, and our mission is designed to help
secure a healthy ocean for all. We are committed to building a workforce
that is representative of humanity?s diversity, by providing an inclusive
and welcoming environment for all employees of Global Fishing Watch and for
our partners, vendors, suppliers and contractors.
