---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in climate variability and marine ecosystems (Santa Barabara, California)
subtitle: University of Santa Barabara, California
tags: [postdoc, USA, marine ecosystems, climate variability, Pacific Ocean]
comments: false
---
Position title: Postdoctoral Scholar

Salary range: The posted UC system-wide salary scales set the minimum pay
based on prior months of postdoc service (both domestic and international)
before the start of appointment. See Table 23 and 23N (Hourly) for
experience level minimums. A reasonable estimated full-time rate for this
position at 100% time is $64,480 -$77,327. Salaries that are higher than
the published system-wide salary at the designated experience level
minimum, are offered when necessary to meet competitive conditions.

Percent time: 100 %

Anticipated start: Summer of 2024

Position duration: Initial Appointment is for 2 years

Application Window

Open date: December 20, 2023

Next review date: Thursday, Feb 15, 2024 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)

Apply by this date to ensure full consideration by the committee.

Final date: Thursday, Feb 29, 2024 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
Applications will continue to be accepted until this date, but those
received after the review date will only be considered if the position has
not yet been filled.

Position description

A postdoctoral researcher is sought for a collaborative project on the
impact of Pacific climate variability on marine ecosystems in the
California Current. This is part of a multi-institutional project with PIs
at UCSB and Louisiana State University, with involvement from the NOAA
Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary (CINMS). The goal of the project
is to evaluate performance of coupled climate models in simulating the
physical and biogeochemical drivers of marine ecosystem ‘shocks’, and their
relationship with modes of large-scale variability in the Pacific. The
postdoctoral scholar will have primary responsibility for the analysis of
large ensembles of coupled climate simulations, including assessment of
models’ capacity for accurate simulation of California Current variability.
The postdoc will also be responsible for evaluating metrics for ecosystem
shocks using large ensembles, and for coordinating collaborations between
project members and CINMS staff to develop climate-informed diagnostic
indicators for marine ecosystem health, as well as attending scientific
conferences to present results as appropriate.

This is a full-time position. Competitive salary and benefits commensurate
with experience. The initial appointment is for 2 years with the potential
for an additional year based on satisfactory performance and funding
availability.

The University is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to
the diversity and excellence of the academic community through research,
teaching, and service as appropriate to the position.

Qualifications

Basic qualifications (required at time of application)
Applicants must have completed all requirements for a PhD program (or
equivalent) except the dissertation in atmosphere / ocean sciences or a
closely related discipline, at the time of application.

Additional qualifications (required at time of start)

PhD in atmosphere / ocean sciences or related discipline

Preferred qualifications

1 or more years Research experience in climate dynamics, physical
oceanography, or marine biogeochemistry

1 or more years Experience working in supercomputing environments
(Linux/Unix)

1 or more years Experience analyzing output from coupled climate models
and/or regional ocean models

1 or more years Research expertise in climate impacts on marine ecosystems

Application Requirements

Document requirements

Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.

Cover Letter (Optional)

Reference requirements

3-5 required (contact information only)

Please provide the full names and email address for each reference. The
references of the top three finalists may be contacted following the
interview process.

Apply link: https://recruit.ap.ucsb.edu/JPF02659

Help contact: rustiebeal@ucsb.edu

About UC Santa Barbara

The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action
Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected
veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.

As a condition of employment, you will be required to comply with the
University of California Policy on Vaccination Programs, as may be amended
or revised from time to time. Federal, state, or local public health
directives may impose additional requirements.

Job location

Santa Barbara, CA
