---
layout: post
title: Graduate student opportunities in interdisciplinary coastal ocean modeling (Hancock County, Mississippi)
subtitle: The University of Southern Mississippi
tags: [PhD, USA, numerical modelling, coastal ocean]
comments: false
---
The Ocean Modeling Group within the School of Ocean Science and Engineering at The University of Southern Mississippi invites applicants for graduate studies (M.Sc. or Ph.D.) in Marine Science (usm.edu/ocean).

Successful candidates will have the opportunity to work with a coastal modeling framework with ocean-wave-atmosphere-sediment transport-biogeochemistry-river model components developed for the coastal waters of northern Gulf of Mexico in order to improve understanding of coastal hydrodynamics, estuarine circulation and exchange processes, water quality and hypoxia, sediment transport and coastal morphodynamics, riverine hydrodynamics with the motivation to apply these toward addressing questions relating to coastal ocean processes, extreme events, coastal hazards, coastal restoration, coastal protection, living marine resources, fisheries sustainability, natural resource management, habitat suitability and climate change. These modeling-based studies will rely on datasets and coastal environment characterization obtained from observational systems such as autonomous underwater and surface vehicles, towed ocean vehicles, buoys, moorings, satellites and land-based remote sensing technologies.

We seek dedicated and motivated students holding a B.Sc. or M.Sc. degree in engineering, oceanography, atmospheric science, marine science, hydrographic science, computer science or a related physical science field. Previous experience in coding (Python or MATLAB) or use of SWAN/WAVEWATCH3, WRF or ROMS is desirable. Prospective students are encouraged to contact Dr. Diana Bernstein (diana.bernstein at usm.edu), Dr. Kemal Cambazoglu (kemal.cambazoglu at usm.edu) or Dr. Jerry Wiggert (jerry.wiggert at usm.edu) with questions. Application review will start immediately, and successful applicants may start as early as Fall 2024. Application details may be found at http://usm.edu/graduate-programs/marine-science. All DMS graduate assistants are supported with an annual resource package, including a tuition waiver and a stipend with benefits.

USM has been designated as the flagship university for Marine Science in the state of Mississippi and is an R1 Carnegie Research University ? Highest Research Activity. The Marine Science faculty and graduate programs are housed at Stennis Space Center, where the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Marine Science and the M.S. degree in Hydrographic Science are delivered. John C. Stennis Space Center is a federal city that boasts the world's largest concentration of oceanographers and hydrographers. Marine Science faculty benefit from close working relationships with a number of on-site federal agencies, including the Naval Research Laboratory-Stennis Space Center, the Naval Oceanographic Office, the Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command, and NOAA Centers, such as the National Data Buoy Center and the National Centers for Environmental Information. Stennis is also in close proximity to the Port of Gulfport, which is the home port for USM's R/V Point Sur and USM Marine Research Center, which features a state-of-the-art fabrication workshop, testing tank, and laboratory space. Gulfport is also the site of the Roger F. Wicker Center for Ocean Enterprise and the home port of a new 199-ft UNOLS Regional Class Research Vessel (R/V Gilbert R. Mason).
