---
layout: post
title: Laboratory technician (San Pedro, California)
subtitle: Hourglass Climate
tags: [engineer, USA, observations, carbon dioxide removal]
comments: false
---
Laboratory Technician, Entry-Level (full-time)

Location: San Pedro, CA (US citizenship required or permanent residency
required)

Salary Range: $50,000 - $74,000

Start Date: May 1, 2024 or thereafter

We encourage members of groups historically underrepresented in science and
engineering to apply to this role.

Hourglass Climate (https://www.linkedin.com/company/hourglass-climate/) is
a USA-based non-profit organization with the mission to strategically
research the safety and efficacy of mineral-based Ocean Alkalinity
Enhancement (OAE) techniques for responsible carbon removal and climate
impact at scale.

The ocean is our greatest resource for capturing hard-to-abate, and
historical, carbon dioxide emissions, a non-negotiable part of limiting
climate warming to 2ÂºC, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC). OAE via alkaline minerals has the potential for permanent,
gigatonne-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) with significant co-benefits
such as a reduction in ocean acidification. However, targeted, independent
and integrated research that rapidly de-risks the key uncertainties around
OAE techniques is urgently needed. To do just that, Hourglass brings
together an ecosystem of scientists to conduct model, laboratory, and field
research for the public benefit.

Job Description:

Hourglass is seeking an entry-level Laboratory Technician to conduct
geochemical analyses on seawater samples and assist in operations
supporting a variety of laboratory-based geochemical experiments designed
to further our understanding of OAE at Hourglass?s analytical laboratory in
the Southern California Marine Institute (SCMI) in San Pedro, CA.

The ideal candidate is a motivated problem-solver ready to think through
unique and novel experimental operations, a detail-oriented individual that
understands the importance of protocols and standard operating procedures
in a lab setting, and a team player that seeks to support their colleagues
with a ?no-task-too-small? mindset. This is a full-time position and will
report to Hourglass? Lead Laboratory Technician.

The ideal candidate can easily fulfill the responsibilities of this
position described below and has the following qualities and experience:

Responsibilities:

   - Independently operate, calibrate, and maintain a spectrophotometer, alkalinity titrator, and dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) analyzer (training provided)
   - Condict high-precision measurements of parameters such as total alkalinity, DIC, pH, soluble reactive silica, total iron, and hydrogen sulfide on seawater samples.
   - Prepare standards and chemical solutions for analytical use.
   - Catalog laboratory inventory.
   - Process and curate geochemical data by applying calibration curves and QA/QC procedures.
   - Carry out data entry into Hourglass?s data management structure.
   - Support geochemical experiments through material preparation, sample collection, and equipment maintenance.
   - Other lab-based tasks required to support geochemical experiments and analyses requested by the Lead Laboratory Technician.

Minimum Qualifications:

   - B.Sc. in chemistry, oceanography, geoscience, or related fields with extensive classroom laboratory experience.
   - Independent thinking and working style.
   - Hands-on, problem-solving attitude.
   - Team player
   - Proficiency in MS Office and Google sheets/docs for data entry and reporting.
   - Meticulous attention to detail in planning and procedure.
   - Ability to maintain safety and quality control standards.
   - Strong interest in biology, earth sciences, geochemistry, oceanography, and/or climate change.

Preferred Qualifications:

   - Experience working with analytical instruments in the field of oceanography
   - Familiarity with marine carbonate chemistry concepts.
   - Experience in applying or developing laboratory standard operating procedures and protocols.
   - Proficiency in handling and processing data using computational tools such as R, Python, Matlab or similar programs.

Compensation:

Salary is based on the candidate's experience and ranges from $50,000 -
$74,000. Additionally, Hourglass offers a generous benefits package.

Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion:

Hourglass is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Hourglass is dedicated to
transparent recruitment, hiring, and promotion processes. Candidates with
diverse backgrounds and experiences are strongly encouraged to apply.

Apply:

To be considered for this position, please submit a resume and a cover
letter to jobs@hourglassclimate.org with the position title in the subject
line. The position will remain open until it is filled.
