---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in marine sediment science (Sarasota, Florida)
subtitle: Mote Marine Laboratory
tags: [postdoc, USA, biogeochemistry, groundwater]
comments: false
---
*Position*: The Chemical and Physical Ecology Program at Mote Marine
Laboratory seeks a research scientist in Marine Sediment Science focused
on the influence of terrestrial nitrate in submarine groundwater seeps
on water chemistry and severe blooms of the dinoflagellate /Karenia
brevis/. The applicant will study groundwater seepage where limestone
aquifer strata intersect the southwest Florida shelf, either diffuse or
via karst features, and how this may contribute to the marine nitrogen
cycle, especially in regard to the role of dissimilatory nitrate
reduction to ammonium in benthic sediment. This research will build on
the previous findings of Mote scientists working in this area. The
research scientist will be expected to complete the proposed research
involving field sediment and water collections and laboratory
experiments, develop collaborations with other internal and external
scientists, and publish research. This position will benefit from
experience in enzyme-mediated nitrogen chemistry, ability to work with
large datasets, and a strong background in experimental design and
statistical analysis. Training in scientific scuba diving is desirable
but not mandatory. The incumbent will be mentored by the manager of the
Chemical and Physical Ecology and Ocean Acidification Programs, Dr.
Emily Hall, and will receive additional mentoring from both internal and
external scientists.

*Mote Background:* Mote is celebrating nearly 70 years as one of the few
remaining independent, non-profit international marine research
laboratories. The Mote research enterprise has over 25 diverse research
programs, an array of STEM education/outreach programs, and an aquarium
featuring working laboratories with more than 100 marine species. Mote
currently has more than 40 PhD-level scientists, nearly 300 staff and
approximately 1300 volunteers located on its main campus in Sarasota and
across seven additional campuses/facilities, including a state-
of-the-art 200-acre marine and freshwater aquaculture research park, and
a 19,000 square foot International Center for Coral Reef Research &
Restoration in the Florida Keys. Work on a new 110,000 square foot Mote
Science Education Aquarium is nearing completion.

*Application:* Applicants must have a Ph.D. in marine chemistry,
biogeochemistry, or similar field. This is a full-time position for up
to 3 years (pending acceptable performance) and includes an expected
initial annual salary of approximately $60,000, health insurance with
family options, and benefits including an opt-in retirement plan with
employer matching, leaves for holidays, illness, and vacation, and other
benefits. The Research Position will also have established researchers
assigned to serve as a Mentors. The position will be for a period of
three years, assuming appropriate annual progress.

Applicants should submit the following:

  * Cover letter of interest including present employment status.
  * Academic transcript of doctoral studies
  * Copy of PhD if achieved or expected graduation date.
  * Curriculum vitae
  * Names and contact information for three references.

*To Apply:*

Interested applicants should apply on line by choosing ?2024
Postdoctoral Researcher - Sediments?? at
https://mote.smapply.org/prog/job_applicants or mail a single package
including cover letter, resume or c.v. and the contact information for
three references to Mote Marine Laboratory, Attn: Human Resources, 1600
Ken Thompson Parkway, Sarasota, FL 34236 before 5pm July 26, 2024.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status or
other protected category. Mote participates in E-Verify. We are
interested in every qualified candidate who is eligible to work in the
United States. However, we are not able to sponsor visas at this time.
Mote Marine Laboratory is an E-Verify employer.

Questions regarding this position may be sent to Emily Hall, Senior
Scientist and Program Manager, Chemical and Physical Ecology and Ocean
Acidification Programs at emily8@mote.org.
