---
layout: post
title: Ocean engineer (Duck, North Carolina)
subtitle: Hourglass Climate
tags: [engineer, USA, observations, carbon dioxide removal]
comments: false
---
Ocean Engineer - Design and Integration (full-time)

Location: Duck, NC (US citizenship required)

Salary Range: $87,000 - $124,000

Start Date: May 1, 2024 or thereafter

We encourage members of groups historically underrepresented in science and
engineering to apply to this role.

Hourglass Climate (https://www.linkedin.com/company/hourglass-climate/) is
a USA-based non-profit organization with the mission to strategically
research the safety and efficacy of mineral-based Ocean Alkalinity
Enhancement (OAE) techniques for responsible carbon removal and climate
impact at scale.

The ocean is our greatest resource for capturing hard-to-abate, and
historical, carbon dioxide emissions, a non-negotiable part of limiting
climate warming to 2ÂºC, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC). OAE via alkaline minerals has the potential for permanent,
gigatonne-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) with significant co-benefits
such as a reduction in ocean acidification. However, targeted, independent
and integrated research that rapidly de-risks the key uncertainties around
OAE techniques is urgently needed. To do just that, Hourglass brings
together an ecosystem of scientists to conduct model, laboratory, and field
research for the public benefit.

Job Description:

We are seeking an early to mid career engineer who will be responsible for
designing, procuring and building the equipment to quantify carbon dioxide
removal from marine CDR solutions. This will involve integrating the
current state-of-the-art sensors along with mechanical and electrical
systems for capturing data and samples. This work will enable
quantification of the real-world efficacy of first-of-their-kind OAE field
trials and the development of advanced numerical models.

The right candidate has an exceptional hands-on engineering skill-set and
an interest in working closely with Hourglass?s team of scientists and
engineers. This position will report to the Principle Engineer remotely but
will work directly on-site with the Senior Scientist at our Duck, NC
facility.

Specific Duties:


   - Assist in the design, fabrication, and deployment of mechanical and electrical systems used in coastal monitoring applications.
   - Perform all local engineering operations, including at-sea deployment, to meet required deadlines
   - Test and perform quality control on scientific and engineering systems
   - Create and execute maintenance schedules, checklists, and procedures for all engineering and science packages.
   - Design for fabrication landers, bottom mounts, pressure vessels, mechanical actuators, and discrete sampling apparatus
   - Work with lead scientist and project managers to coordinate ship time and potentially act as primary contact for ship operations with collaborators
   - Continually assess state of the art sensing systems utilized in OAE and CDR MRV
   - Play a key role as integrator across internal teams to deliver the field analytical/measurement package
   - Assist in coding and testing electronic systems
   - Work at sea up to 5 days per month (not overnight), deploying and maintaining oceanographic instruments


Required Skills and Experience:

   - Bachelor's degree in Mechanical, Electrical, or Ocean Engineering with 2-5 years of direct marine experience or 5-10 years of relevant engineering experience
   - Self-starter with the ability to work independently.  This job demands a person who will embrace ownership of the systems they help design and build. No task is too small.
   - Experience designing systems for marine operations
   - Hands-on experience in fabrication of mechanical and electrical systems, including expertise with typical manufacturing tools.
   - 3D printing experience
   - Practical experience in research and development including rapid prototyping
   - CAD/CAM experience and the ability to create shop and assembly drawings for mechanical systems
   - Experience in seamanship, rigging, deck operations and offshore deployment and recovery of scientific equipment
   - Ability to operate autonomously with strong organizational and communications skills
   - Practical experience with electrical assembly and troubleshooting


Preferred Skills and Experience:

   - Graduate degree in ME, EE or other relevant degree with 3 years relevant experience
   - Ability to code microcontrollers and write basic Python scripts
   - Experience from the carbon removal technology industry
   - Experience with potting and encapsulating underwater electrical components
   - Working knowledge of underwater cables and connectors
   - PE license

Compensation:

Salary is based on the candidate's experience and ranges from $87,000 -
$124,000. Additionally, Hourglass offers a generous benefits package.

Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion:

Hourglass is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Hourglass is dedicated to
transparent recruitment, hiring, and promotion processes. Candidates with
diverse backgrounds and experiences are strongly encouraged to apply.

Apply:

To be considered for this position, please submit a resume and a cover
letter to jobs@hourglassclimate.org with the position title in the subject
line. The position will remain open until it is filled.
