---
layout: post
title: PhD position in sea ice dynamics (Tromsø, Norway)
subtitle: The Arctic University of Norway (UiT)
tags: [PhD, Norway, sea ice, Arctic Ocean]
comments: false
---
We are recruiting a PhD student to join our research group in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at UiT - The Arctic University of Norway. The position is part of a new transdisciplinary research school "Changing Arctic” at UiT. 

We are particularly interested in sea ice dynamics and the connections between flow features and climatic change. The PhD topic is flexible and we welcome applications from anyone interested in other aspects of geophysical of environmental fluid dyanmics from a coherent structure or dynamical systems persepctive as well. Sea ice research would be conducted in concert with collaborators in the Department of Physics at UiT and NPI with field work potential for interested candidates. I encourage all interested individuals to review the job ad for more specifics:

https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/257371/phd-fellow-in-geophysical-or-environmental-fluid-dynamics

The start date is flexible in 2024.  The position is fully funded, including a salary and many other great Norwegian social benefits. The UiT campus is near the center of Tromsø, a vibrant city located in Northern Norway with approximately 75,000 inhabitants. The university is uniquely situated in a comfortably-sized city with an international airport but is immediately surrounded by the stunning mountains and fjords of Northern Scandinavia. The location also offers ample opportunities, e.g., skiing, hiking, ocean activities, northern lights viewing and the midnight sun. 

The deadline for application (through jobbnorge) is 1st April 2024.

For more information, please see the linked ad above. I also encourage prospective students to contact me at nikolas.aksamit@uit.no with any further questions, especially regarding the necessary application material.

