---
layout: post
title: Research scientist position in Marine Carbonate Chemistry (Beals, USA)
subtitle: The downeast institute (dei) beals, maine
tags: [Research Scientist, Marine Carbonate Chemistry, USA]
comments: false
---
The Downeast Institute (DEI) Beals, Maine is seeking candidates for a research scientist position in marine carbonate chemistry that is funded for the first 18 months. Preferred candidates will have a Ph.D. in marine biology, marine chemistry, or a related field, with expertise in ocean and sediment carbonate chemistry, and oversee both internal and external research and operation of an ocean acidification laboratory. In addition, the scientist is expected to conduct experiments in the laboratory and field to determine effects of ocean acidification (OA) on the biology and ecology of local, commercially-important shellfish. This research will be facilitated by state-of-the-art shellfish hatchery facilities at DEI where we have been rearing bivalves and crustaceans for the past 35 years. The successful candidate will work closely with the institute’s Director of Research and its staff to maintain and operate the OA laboratory, and promote interactive research with internal and outside investigators to utilize DEI facilities for OA research. The OA laboratory is designed to study impacts of global environmental changes on marine organisms, with a focus on full factorial ocean acidification and warming experiments using replicate tanks that are fully physically and statistically independent (see: https://downeastinstitute.org/our-facility/for-scientists/ocean-acidification-laboratory/). We are interested in every qualified candidate who is eligible to work in the United States. That is, applicants must be authorized to work for any employer in the United States; however, we are not able to sponsor or take over sponsorship of an employment visa. Materials must be submitted electronically to bbeal@downeastinstitute.org with “Apply for Research Scientist Position” in the subject line. Required material includes:  Cover Letter, References, Resume/CV, and Transcripts. All required materials must be submitted by 1 February, 2025. For more information: https://downeastinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/downeast-institute-research-scientist-marine-carbonate-chemistry-job-advertisement2.pdf

